K. Fang, T. Migimatsu, A. Mandlekar, L. Fei-Fei and J. Bohg, "Active Task Randomization: Learning Robust Skills via Unsupervised Generation of Diverse and Feasible Tasks," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 1-8, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10341727.Abstract: Solving real-world manipulation tasks requires robots to be equipped with a repertoire of skills that can be applied to diverse scenarios. While learning-based methods can enable robots to acquire skills from interaction data, their success relies on collecting training data that covers the diverse range of tasks that the robot may encounter during the test time. However, creating diverse and feasible training tasks often requires extensive domain knowledge and non-trivial manual labor. We introduce Active Task Randomization (ATR), an approach that learns robust skills through the unsupervised generation of training tasks. ATR selects suitable training tasks-which consist of an environment configuration and manipulation goal-by actively balancing their diversity and feasibility. In doing so, ATR effectively creates a curriculum that gradually increases task diversity while maintaining a moderate level of feasibility, which leads to more complex tasks as the skills become more capable. ATR predicts task diversity and feasibility with a compact task representation that is learned concurrently with the skills. The selected tasks are then procedurally generated in simulation with a graph-based parameterization. We demonstrate that the learned skills can be composed by a task planner to solve unseen sequential manipulation problems based on visual inputs. Compared to baseline methods, ATR can achieve superior success rates in single-step and sequential manipulation tasks. Videos are available at sites.google.com/view/active-task-randomization/ keywords: {Training;Learning systems;Visualization;Training data;Manuals;Task analysis;Intelligent robots},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10341727&isnumber=10341342

T. Kanai, I. Vasiljevic, V. Guizilini, A. Gaidon and R. Ambrus, "Robust Self-Supervised Extrinsic Self-Calibration," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 1932-1939, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10341367.Abstract: Autonomous vehicles and robots need to operate over a wide variety of scenarios in order to complete tasks efficiently and safely. Multi-camera self-supervised monocular depth estimation from videos is a promising way to reason about the environment, as it generates metrically scaled geometric predictions from visual data without requiring additional sensors. However, most works assume well-calibrated extrinsics to fully leverage this multi-camera setup, even though accurate and efficient calibration is still a challenging problem. In this work, we introduce a novel method for extrinsic calibration that builds upon the principles of self-supervised monocular depth and ego-motion learning. Our proposed curriculum learning strategy uses monocular depth and pose estimators with velocity supervision to estimate extrinsics, and then jointly learns extrinsic calibration along with depth and pose for a set of overlapping cameras rigidly attached to a moving vehicle. Experiments on a benchmark multi-camera dataset (DDAD) demonstrate that our method enables self-calibration in various scenes robustly and efficiently compared to a traditional vision-based pose estimation pipeline. Furthermore, we demonstrate the benefits of extrinsics self-calibration as a way to improve depth prediction via joint optimization. The project page: https://sites.google.com/tri.global/tri-sesc keywords: {Training;Visualization;Benchmark testing;Cameras;Robot sensing systems;Robustness;Calibration},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10341367&isnumber=10341342

Z. Wang, D. Threatt, S. B. Andersson and R. Tron, "Do More with Less: Single-Model, Multi-Goal Architectures for Resource-Constrained Robots," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 1940-1946, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10341879.Abstract: Deep learning methods are widely used in robotic applications. By learning from prior experience, the robot can abstract knowledge of the environment, and use this knowledge to accomplish different goals, such as object search, frontier exploration, or scene understanding, with a smaller amount of resources than might be needed without that knowledge. Most existing methods typically require a significant amount of sensing, which in turn has significant costs in terms of power consumption for acquisition and processing, and typically focus on models that are tuned for each specific goal, leading to the need to train, store and run each one separately. These issues are particularly important in a resource-constrained setting, such as with small-scale robots or during long-duration missions. We propose a single, multi-task deep learning architecture that takes advantage of the structure of the partial environment to predict different abstractions of the environment (thus reducing the need for rich sensing), and to leverage these predictions to simultaneously achieve different high-level goals (thus sharing computation between goals). As an example application of the proposed architecture, we consider the specific example of a robot equipped with a 2-D laser scanner and an object detector, tasked with searching for an object (such as an exit) in a residential building while constructing a topological map that can be used for future missions. The prior knowledge of the environment is encoded using a U-Net deep network architecture. In this context, our work leads to an object search algorithm that is complete, and that outperforms a more traditional frontier-based approach. The topological map we produce uses scene trees to qualitatively represent the environment as a graph at a fraction of the cost of existing SLAM-based solutions. Our results demonstrate that it is possible to extract multi-task semantic information that is useful for navigation and mapping directly from bare-bone, non-semantic measurements. keywords: {Costs;Semantics;Computer architecture;Predictive models;Robot sensing systems;Search problems;Multitasking},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10341879&isnumber=10341342

X. Liu, G. Clark, J. Campbell, Y. Zhou and H. B. Amor, "Enhancing State Estimation in Robots: A Data-Driven Approach with Differentiable Ensemble Kalman Filters," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 1947-1954, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10341617.Abstract: This paper introduces a novel state estimation framework for robots using differentiable ensemble Kalman filters (DEnKF). DEnKF is a reformulation of the traditional ensemble Kalman filter that employs stochastic neural networks to model the process noise implicitly. Our work is an extension of previous research on differentiable filters, which has provided a strong foundation for our modular and end-to-end differentiable framework. This framework enables each component of the system to function independently, leading to improved flexibility and versatility in implementation. Through a series of experiments, we demonstrate the flexibility of this model across a diverse set of real-world tracking tasks, including visual odometry and robot manipulation. Moreover, we show that our model effectively handles noisy observations, is robust in the absence of observations, and outperforms state-of-the-art differentiable filters in terms of error metrics. Specifically, we observe a significant improvement of at least 59% in translational error when using DEnKF with noisy observations. Our results underscore the potential of DEnKF in advancing state estimation for robotics. Code for DEnKF is available at https://github.com/ir-lab/DEnKF keywords: {Visualization;Uncertainty;Perturbation methods;Robot sensing systems;Kalman filters;Noise measurement;Task analysis},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10341617&isnumber=10341342

Z. Zhang et al., "Learning a Causal Transition Model for Object Cutting," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 1996-2003, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10341424.Abstract: Cutting objects into desired fragments is challenging for robots due to the spatially unstructured nature of fragments and the complex one-to-many object fragmentation caused by actions. We present a novel approach to model object fragmentation using an attributed stochastic grammar. This grammar abstracts fragment states as node variables and captures causal transitions in object fragmentation through production rules. We devise a probabilistic framework to learn this grammar from human demonstrations. The planning process for object cutting involves inferring an optimal parse tree of desired fragments using the learned grammar, with parse tree productions corresponding to cutting actions. We employ Monte Carlo Tree Search (MCTS) to efficiently approximate the optimal parse tree and generate a sequence of executable cutting actions. The experiments demonstrate the efficacy in planning for object-cutting tasks, both in simulation and on a physical robot. The proposed approach outperforms several baselines by demonstrating superior generalization to novel setups, thanks to the compositionality of the grammar model. keywords: {Training;Monte Carlo methods;Stochastic processes;Production;Probabilistic logic;Robustness;Grammar},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10341424&isnumber=10341342

M. Kang, J. Kim, H. Kee and S. Oh, "Object Rearrangement Planning for Target Retrieval in a Confined Space with Lateral View," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2004-2009, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10341865.Abstract: In this paper, we perform an object rearrangement task for target retrieval in an environment with a confined space and limited observation directions. The agent must create a collision-free path to bring out the target object by relocating the surrounding objects using the prehensile action, i.e., pick-and-place. Object rearrangement in a confined space is a non-monotone problem, and finding a valid plan within a reasonable time is challenging. We propose a novel algorithm that divides the target retrieval task, which requires a long sequence of actions, into sequential sub-problems and explores each solution through Monte Carlo tree search (MCTS). In the experiment, we verify that the proposed algorithm can find safe rearrangement plans with various objects efficiently compared to the existing planning methods. Furthermore, we show that the proposed method can be transferred to a real robot experiment without additional training. keywords: {Training;Monte Carlo methods;Shape;Planning;Task analysis;Intelligent robots},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10341865&isnumber=10341342

D. Tanneberg and M. Gienger, "Learning Type-Generalized Actions for Symbolic Planning," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2010-2017, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10342301.Abstract: Symbolic planning is a powerful technique to solve complex tasks that require long sequences of actions and can equip an intelligent agent with complex behavior. The downside of this approach is the necessity for suitable symbolic representations describing the state of the environment as well as the actions that can change it. Traditionally such representations are carefully hand-designed by experts for distinct problem domains, which limits their transferability to different problems and environment complexities. In this paper, we propose a novel concept to generalize symbolic actions using a given entity hierarchy and observed similar behavior. In a simulated grid-based kitchen environment, we show that type-generalized actions can be learned from few observations and generalize to novel situations. Incorporating an additional on-the-fly generalization mechanism during planning, unseen task combinations, involving longer sequences, novel entities and unexpected environment behavior, can be solved. keywords: {Planning;Behavioral sciences;Complexity theory;Intelligent agents;Task analysis;Intelligent robots},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10342301&isnumber=10341342

R. Cannizzaro and L. Kunze, "CAR-DESPOT: Causally-Informed Online POMDP Planning for Robots in Confounded Environments," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2018-2025, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10342223.Abstract: Robots operating in real-world environments must reason about possible outcomes of stochastic actions and make decisions based on partial observations of the true world state. A major challenge for making accurate and robust action predictions is the problem of confounding, which if left untreated can lead to prediction errors. The partially observable Markov decision process (POMDP) is a widely-used framework to model these stochastic and partially-observable decision-making problems. However, due to a lack of explicit causal semantics, POMDP planning methods are prone to confounding bias and thus in the presence of unobserved confounders may produce underperforming policies. This paper presents a novel causally-informed extension of “anytime regularized determinized sparse partially observable tree” (AR-DESPOT), a modern anytime online POMDP planner, using causal modelling and inference to eliminate errors caused by unmeasured confounder variables. We further propose a method to learn offline the partial parameterisation of the causal model for planning, from ground truth model data. We evaluate our methods on a toy problem with an unobserved confounder and show that the learned causal model is highly accurate, while our planning method is more robust to confounding and produces overall higher performing policies than AR-DESPOT. keywords: {Toy manufacturing industry;Semantics;Decision making;Markov processes;Data models;Cognition;Planning},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10342223&isnumber=10341342

Y. Liang and H. Kurniawati, "Recurrent Macro Actions Generator for POMDP Planning," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2026-2033, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10341759.Abstract: Many planning problems in robotics require long planning horizon and uncertain in nature. The Par-tially Observable Markov Descision Process (POMDP) is a mathematically principled framework for planning under uncertainty. To alleviate the difficulties of computing good approximate POMDP solutions for long horizon problems, one often plans using macro actions, where each macro action is a chain of primitive actions. Such a strategy reduces the effective planning horizon of the problem, and hence reduces the computational complexity for solving. The difficulty is in generating a set of suitable macro actions. In this paper, we present a simple recurrent neural network that learns to generate suitable sets of candidate macro actions that exploits environment information. Key to this learning method is to represent the raw partial information from the environment as a latent problem instance, and sequentially generate macro actions conditioned on the past information. We compare our proposed method with state-of-the-art [1] on four dif-ferent long horizon planning tasks with various difficulties. The results indicate the quality of the policies computed using macro actions generated by our proposed method consistently exceeds benchmarks. Our implementation can be accessed at https://github.com/YC-Liang/Recurrent-Macro-Action-Generator. keywords: {Learning systems;Uncertainty;Recurrent neural networks;Scalability;Computer architecture;Markov processes;Generators},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10341759&isnumber=10341342

M. S. Pereira, L. C. A. Pimenta and B. V. Adorno, "Task Planning and Motion Control with Temporal Logic Specifications," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2034-2041, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10341494.Abstract: This paper proposes a task planning and motion control framework that generates task plans for a linear temporal logic specification (LTL), which are then executed using a task-space constrained motion controller and a local task planner that overcomes local minima. We propose a new encoding for task specifications, directly in the task-space, as constraints of a mixed-integer linear program that can be used with off-the-shelf LTL linear encoding. We apply our framework to plan and execute trajectories for a free-flying robot and show that the task plan is accomplished without collisions, even in the presence of unexpected moving obstacles that are not considered in the planning phase, while control signal constraints are satisfied. To evaluate the local minima avoidance, we compare the local task planner with a sampling-based motion planner, and the results show a smoother trajectory with a faster execution and less total planning time when using our framework. Last, our framework scaled well with a longer LTL specification, as opposed to automata-based frameworks that usually suffer with the curse of the dimensionality. keywords: {Motion planning;Navigation;Simulation;Encoding;Planning;Trajectory;Quadratic programming},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10341494&isnumber=10341342

S. A. Bouhsain, R. Alami and T. Siméon, "Simultaneous Action and Grasp Feasibility Prediction for Task and Motion Planning Through Multi-Task Learning," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2042-2048, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10341257.Abstract: In this paper, we address task and motion plan-ning (TAMP) which is an important yet challenging robotics problem. It is known to suffer from the high combinatorial complexity of discrete search, often requiring a large number of geometric planning calls. We build upon recent works in TAMP by taking advantage of learning methods to provide action feasibility information as a heuristic to the symbolic planner, thus guiding it to a geometrically feasible solution and reducing geometric planning time. We propose AGFP-Net, a multi-task neural network predicting not only action feasibility, but also the feasibility of a set of grasp types. We also propose an improved feasibility-informed TAMP algorithm capable of solving more complex problems, and handling goals which are not fully specified. Comparative results obtained on different problems of varying complexity show that our method is able to greatly reduce task and motion planning time. keywords: {Learning systems;Shape;Neural networks;Performance gain;Multitasking;Manipulators;Prediction algorithms},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10341257&isnumber=10341342

J. Envall, R. Poranne and S. Coros, "Differentiable Task Assignment and Motion Planning," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2049-2056, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10341602.Abstract: Task and motion planning is one of the key problems in robotics today. It is often formulated as a discrete task allocation problem combined with continuous motion planning. Many existing approaches to TAMP involve explicit descriptions of task primitives that cause discrete changes in the kinematic relationship between the actor and the objects. In this work we propose an alternative, fully differentiable approach which supports a large number of TAMP problem instances. Rather than explicitly enumerating task primitives, actions are instead represented implicitly as part of the solution to a nonlinear optimization problem. We focus on decision making for robotic manipulators, specifically for pick and place tasks, and explore the efficacy of the model through a number of simulated experiments including multiple robots, objects and interactions with the environment. We also show several possible extensions. keywords: {Decision making;Kinematics;Manipulators;Planning;Resource management;Task analysis;Optimization},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10341602&isnumber=10341342

K. Gao, J. Yu, T. S. Punjabi and J. Yu, "Effectively Rearranging Heterogeneous Objects on Cluttered Tabletops," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2057-2064, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10342164.Abstract: Effectively rearranging heterogeneous objects constitutes a high-utility skill that an intelligent robot should master. Whereas significant work has been devoted to the grasp synthesis of heterogeneous objects, little attention has been given to the planning for sequentially manipulating such objects. In this work, we examine the long-horizon sequential rearrangement of heterogeneous objects in a tabletop setting, addressing not just generating feasible plans but near-optimal ones. Toward that end, and building on previous methods, including combinatorial algorithms and Monte Carlo tree search-based solutions, we develop state-of-the-art solvers for optimizing two practical objective functions considering key object properties such as size and weight. Thorough simulation studies show that our methods provide significant advantages in handling challenging heterogeneous object rearrangement problems, especially in cluttered settings. Real robot experiments further demonstrate and confirm these advantages. Source code and evaluation data associated with this research will be available at https//github.com/arc-l/TRLB upon the publication of this manuscript keywords: {Costs;Monte Carlo methods;Shape;Heuristic algorithms;Search problems;Linear programming;Planning},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10342164&isnumber=10341342

S. Moon, O. Peltzer, J. Ott, S. -K. Kim and A. -A. Agha-Mohammadi, "Semantics-Aware Mission Adaptation for Autonomous Exploration in Urban Environments," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2065-2070, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10341632.Abstract: Robust mission planning is an essential component for mission autonomy to perform complicated tasks in extreme environments. In this paper, we are interested in the role of semantic abstractions for guiding autonomous mission planning. In particular, we focus on how semantics can be leveraged to transition, at the mission level, in between individually robust task plans. We present a mission autonomy framework wherein a task plan adaptation policy leverages up-to-date semantics information in order to adapt to changes that occur during run-time, which endows the robot with better resiliency to unexpected events and improves the overall efficiency of mission operations. Under this new perspective, we provide a concrete and challenging application of autonomous exploration and radio source seeking in a complex multi-level building environment. Experimental results over simulations and real hardware tests demonstrate that the presented semantics-aware mission adaptation more effectively completes the mission with better qualitative results compared to a non-adaptive baseline. keywords: {Adaptation models;Semantics;Buildings;Urban areas;Hardware;Planning;Task analysis},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10341632&isnumber=10341342

P. Amorese and M. Lahijanian, "Optimal Cost-Preference Trade-Off Planning with Multiple Temporal Tasks," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2071-2077, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10342351.Abstract: Autonomous robots are increasingly utilized in realistic scenarios with multiple complex tasks. In these scenarios, there may be a preferred way of completing the tasks, but it is often in conflict with optimal execution. Recent work studies preference-based planning, however, they have yet to extend the notion of preference to the behavior of the robot with respect to each task. In this work, we introduce a novel notion of preference that provides a generalized framework to express preferences over individual tasks as well as their relations. We perform an optimal trade-off (Pareto) analysis between behaviors that adhere to the user's preference and the ones that are resource optimal. We introduce an efficient planning framework that generates Pareto-optimal plans given user's preference by extending A* search. Further, we show a method of computing the entire Pareto front (the set of all optimal trade-offs) via an adaptation of a multi-objective A* algorithm. We also present a search heuristic to enable scalability. We illustrate the power of the framework on both mobile robots and manipulators. Our benchmarks show the effectiveness of the heuristic with up to 2-orders of magnitude speedup. keywords: {Costs;Heuristic algorithms;Scalability;Benchmark testing;Manipulators;Planning;Behavioral sciences},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10342351&isnumber=10341342

A. Xu, K. Gao, S. W. Feng and J. Yu, "Optimal and Stable Multi-Layer Object Rearrangement on a Tabletop," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2078-2085, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10342446.Abstract: Object rearrangement is a fundamental sub-task in accomplishing a great many physical tasks. As such, effectively executing rearrangement is an important skill for intelligent robots to master. In this study, we conduct the first algorithmic study on optimally solving the problem of Multi-layer Object Rearrangement on a Tabletop (MORT), in which one object may be relocated at a time, and an object can only be moved if other objects do not block its top surface. In addition, any intermediate structure during the reconfiguration process must be physically stable, i.e., it should stand without external support. To tackle the dual challenges of untangling the dependencies between objects and ensuring structural stability, we develop an algorithm that interleaves the computation of the optimal rearrangement plan and structural stability checking. Using a carefully constructed integer linear programming (ILP) model, our algorithm, Stability-Aware Rearrangement Programming (SARP), readily scales to optimally solve complex rearrangement problems of 3D structures with over 60 building blocks, with solution quality significantly outperforming natural greedy best-first approaches. Upon the publication of the manuscript source code and data will be available at https//github.com/arc-1/mort/. keywords: {Solid modeling;Three-dimensional displays;Source coding;Computational modeling;Integer linear programming;Data models;Structural engineering},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10342446&isnumber=10341342

Y. Ding, X. Zhang, C. Paxton and S. Zhang, "Task and Motion Planning with Large Language Models for Object Rearrangement," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2086-2092, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10342169.Abstract: Multi-object rearrangement is a crucial skill for service robots, and commonsense reasoning is frequently needed in this process. However, achieving commonsense arrangements requires knowledge about objects, which is hard to transfer to robots. Large language models (LLMs) are one potential source of this knowledge, but they do not naively capture information about plausible physical arrangements of the world. We propose LLM-GROP, which uses prompting to extract commonsense knowledge about semantically valid object configurations from an LLM and instantiates them with a task and motion planner in order to generalize to varying scene geometry. LLM-GROP allows us to go from natural-language commands to human-aligned object rearrangement in varied environments. Based on human evaluations, our approach achieves the highest rating while outperforming competitive baselines in terms of success rate while maintaining comparable cumulative action costs. Finally, we demonstrate a practical implementation of LLM-GROP on a mobile manipulator in real-world scenarios. Supplementary materials are available at: https://sites.google.com/view/llm-grop keywords: {Geometry;Costs;Service robots;Manipulators;Planning;Task analysis;Commonsense reasoning},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10342169&isnumber=10341342

T. K. Best, C. A. Laubscher, R. J. Cortino, S. Cheng and R. D. Gregg, "Improving Amputee Endurance Over Activities of Daily Living with a Robotic Knee-Ankle Prosthesis: A Case Study," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2101-2107, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10341643.Abstract: Robotic knee-ankle prostheses have often fallen short relative to passive microprocessor prostheses in time-based clinical outcome tests. User ambulation endurance is an alternative clinical outcome metric that may better highlight the benefits of robotic prostheses. However, previous studies were unable to show endurance benefits due to inaccurate high-level classification, discretized mid-level control, and in-sufficiently difficult ambulation tasks. In this case study, we present a phase-based mid-level prosthesis controller which yields biomimetic joint kinematics and kinetics that adjust to suit a continuum of tasks. We enrolled an individual with an above-knee amputation and challenged him to perform repeated, rapid laps of a circuit comprising activities of daily living with both his passive prosthesis and a robotic prosthesis. The participant demonstrated improved endurance with the robotic prosthesis and our mid-level controller compared to his passive prosthesis, completing over twice as many total laps before fatigue and muscle discomfort required him to stop. We also show that time-based outcome metrics fail to capture this endurance improvement, suggesting that alternative metrics related to endurance and fatigue may better highlight the clinical benefits of robotic prostheses. keywords: {Measurement;Kinematics;Muscles;Fatigue;Kinetic theory;Task analysis;Robots},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10341643&isnumber=10341342

S. Cheng, C. A. Laubscher and R. D. Gregg, "Controlling Powered Prosthesis Kinematics Over Continuous Transitions Between Walk and Stair Ascent," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2108-2115, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10341457.Abstract: One of the primary benefits of emerging powered prosthetic legs is their ability to facilitate step-over-step stair ascent by providing positive mechanical work. Existing control methods typically have distinct steady-state activity modes for walking and stair ascent, where activity transitions involve discretely switching between controllers and often must be initiated with a particular leg. However, these discrete transitions do not necessarily replicate able-bodied joint biomechanics, which have been shown to continuously adjust over a transition stride. This paper presents a phase-based kinematic controller for a powered knee-ankle prosthesis that enables continuous, biomimetic transitions between walking and stair ascent. The controller tracks joint angles from a data-driven kinematic model that continuously interpolates between the steady-state kinematic models, and it allows both the prosthetic and intact leg to lead the transitions. Results from experiments with two transfemoral amputee participants indicate that knee and ankle kinematics smoothly transition between walking and stair ascent, with comparable or lower root mean square errors compared to variations from able-bodied data. keywords: {Legged locomotion;Knee;Kinematics;Switches;Stairs;Control systems;Steady-state},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10341457&isnumber=10341342

R. R. Posh, J. A. Tittle, J. P. Schmiedeler and P. M. Wensing, "Calibration of a Tibia-Based Phase Variable for Control of Robotic Transtibial Prostheses," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 1-6, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10341724.Abstract: Phase variable control based on global tibia kinematics holds promise for predicting gait cycle progression to continuously control robotic transtibial prostheses. Calibration of the phase variable is critical to ensure its monotonic behavior, to approach a linear relationship with gait percentage, and to accurately predict the percentage of gait. This paper compares four calibration approaches using data from 22 able-bodied subjects walking at 14 speeds [1]. The typical pure centering (PC) approach employed for thigh-based phase variables is not viable, yielding monotonic phase progression in fewer than half of the cases. An optimization (OPT) approach found monotonic calibrations in 305/308 cases with high linearity (average R2 of 0.91). Critical point centering (CPC) approximates the OPT performance, with 274/308 monotonic calibrations and an average R2 of 0.85, whereas the related vertical weighted average (VWA) approach was only slightly better than PC. All four approaches are similarly accurate in predicting gait percentage, staying within 5% at least 92.7% of the time. keywords: {Legged locomotion;Shape;Linearity;Optimized production technology;Kinematics;Calibration;Impedance},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10341724&isnumber=10341342

C. Angelidou and P. Artemiadis, "On Intuitive Control of Ankle-Foot Prostheses: A Sensor Fusion-Based Algorithm for Real-Time Prediction of Transitions to Compliant Surfaces," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2122-2127, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10341783.Abstract: Substantial research and development on the design and control of robotic ankle-foot prostheses have aimed to restore normal function and movement capacity for people with gait impairments and lower limb amputations. However, prostheses controllers usually fail to incorporate information pertaining to the properties of the walking terrain, such as ground stiffness. There is therefore a need for a framework that adjusts the prostheses parameters according to the user's intent to transition to a variable impedance terrain. To achieve this, we need to incorporate the human wearer in the control loop of the prosthesis. This work proposes an advanced, high-level controller framework for powered ankle-foot prostheses that combines subject-specific pattern recognition (PR) and classification strategies to predict whether the next step will be on a rigid or compliant surface. Comparing the Support Vector Machine (SVM) and k-Nearest Neighbors (k-NN) classification algorithms for this task, we conclude that by combining a k-NN implementation with a Pattern Recognition Neural Network (PR NN), our method can accurately forecast upcoming surface stiffness transitions in time to allow for prompt adaptation to the new walking terrain. We also show that the sensor fusion of kinematic and surface electromyographic (EMG) data outperforms single-source inputs producing the best prediction results for all subjects with an accuracy of up to 87.5%. keywords: {Support vector machines;Legged locomotion;Surface impedance;Kinematics;Prediction algorithms;Electromyography;Real-time systems},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10341783&isnumber=10341342

L. M. Sullivan, S. Creveling, M. Cowan, L. Gabert and T. Lenzi, "Powered Knee and Ankle Prosthesis Control for Adaptive Ambulation at Variable Speeds, Inclines, and Uneven Terrains," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2128-2133, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10342504.Abstract: Ambulation in everyday life requires walking at variable speeds, variable inclines, and variable terrains. Powered prostheses aim to provide this adaptability through control of the actuated joints. Some powered prosthesis controllers can adapt to discrete changes in speed and incline but require manual tuning to determine the control parameters, leading to poor clinical viability. Other data-driven controllers can continuously adapt to changes in speed and incline but do so by imposing the same non-amputee gait patterns for all amputee subjects, which does not consider subjective preferences and differing clinical needs of users. Here, we present a controller for powered knee and ankle prostheses that can continuously adapt to different walking speeds, inclines, and uneven terrains without enforcing a specific prosthesis position, impedance, or torque. A virtual biarticular muscle connection determines the knee flexion torque, which changes with both speed and slope. Adaptation to inclines and uneven terrains is based solely on the global shank orientation. Continuously variable damping allows for speed adaptation. Minimum-jerk programming defines the prosthesis swing trajectory at variable cadences. Experiments with one individual with an above-knee amputation suggest that the proposed controller can effectively adapt to different walking speeds, inclines, and rough terrains. keywords: {Legged locomotion;Knee;Torque;Sociology;Trajectory;Impedance;Statistics},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10342504&isnumber=10341342

M. D. Twardowski, M. D. Chan, Z. Li, G. De Luca, J. C. Kline and J. P. Chiodini, "Motor Unit Action Potential Based Classification of Hand and Arm Motions," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2134-2139, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10342444.Abstract: While motion classification architectures have improved in accuracy and robustness in recent years, computationally expensive approaches and sophisticated hardware dependencies limit their real-world applicability. To overcome these challenges, we have designed a lightweight, realtime architecture for classifying motions of the arm & hand using features derived from motor unit action potentials within surface Electromyographic (sEMG) signals, rather than which provide direct interrogation of underlying muscle activation patterns. We tested the architecture on 6 motions performed dynamically across a range of muscle contraction intensities achieving median classification accuracies ranging from 91.3% to 93.3 % and an average processing time of approximately 40 ms across three different classifiers. Taken together, our findings demonstrate potential robustness of motor unit based neural interfaces for motion classification tasks. keywords: {Action potentials;Computer architecture;Muscles;Arms;Robustness;Distance measurement;Pattern recognition},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10342444&isnumber=10341342

C. Karakasis, R. Salati and P. Artemiadis, "Adjusting the Quasi-Stiffness of an Ankle-Foot Prosthesis Improves Walking Stability during Locomotion over Compliant Terrain," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2140-2145, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10342344.Abstract: Despite significant advances in the design of robotic lower-limb prostheses for individuals with impaired mobility, there is a need for further progress in improving the robustness, safety, and stability of these devices in a wide range of activities of daily living. Although powered prostheses have been able to adapt to different speeds, conditions, and rigid terrains, no control strategies have been proposed for addressing walking over compliant surfaces. This work proposes a continuous admittance controller that adjusts the ankle quasistiffness of a powered ankle-foot prosthesis and improves gait stability during locomotion over compliant terrain. The proposed controller is evaluated with walking experiments on an instrumented treadmill that can accurately change the walking surface stiffness. In these experiments, the proposed controller accurately changes the prosthesis ankle quasi-stiffness across a wide range of $10-20\frac{Nm}{deg}-($ while improving local dynamic stability compared to a standard phase-variable controller. The proposed controller can significantly improve the performance of lower-limb prostheses in dynamic and compliant environments frequently encountered in daily activities, resulting in improved quality of life for people with lower-limb amputation. keywords: {Legged locomotion;Instruments;Green products;Robustness;Safety;Admittance;Standards},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10342344&isnumber=10341342

M. Cowan, S. Creveling, L. M. Sullivan, L. Gabert and T. Lenzi, "A Unified Controller for Natural Ambulation on Stairs and Level Ground with a Powered Robotic Knee Prosthesis," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2146-2151, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10341691.Abstract: Powered lower-limb prostheses have the potential to improve amputee mobility by closely imitating the biomechanical function of the missing biological leg. To accomplish this goal, powered prostheses need controllers that can seamlessly adapt to the ambulation activity intended by the user. Most powered prosthesis control architectures address this issue by switching between specific controllers for each activity. This approach requires online classification of the intended ambulation activity. Unfortunately, any misclassification can cause the prosthesis to perform a different movement than the user expects, increasing the likelihood of falls and injuries. Therefore, classification approaches require near-perfect accuracy to be used safely in real life. In this paper, we propose a unified controller for powered knee prostheses which allows for walking, stair ascent, and stair descent without the need for explicit activity classification. Experiments with one individual with an above-knee amputation show that the proposed controller enables seamless transitions between activities. Moreover, transition between activities is possible while leading with either the sound-side or the prosthesis. A controller with these characteristics has the potential to improve amputee mobility. keywords: {Legged locomotion;Knee;Sociology;Switches;Stairs;Control systems;Statistics},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10341691&isnumber=10341342

S. Creveling, M. Cowan, L. M. Sullivan, L. Gabert and T. Lenzi, "Volitional EMG Control Enables Stair Climbing with a Robotic Powered Knee Prosthesis," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2152-2157, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10341615.Abstract: Existing controllers for robotic powered prostheses regulate the prosthesis speed, timing, and energy generation using predefined position or torque trajectories. This approach enables climbing stairs step-over-step. However, it does not provide amputees with direct volitional control of the robotic prosthesis, a functionality necessary to restore full mobility to the user. Here we show that proportional electromyographic (EMG) control of the prosthesis knee torque enables volitional control of a powered knee prosthesis during stair climbing. The proposed EMG controller continuously regulates knee torque based on activation of the residual hamstrings, measured using a single EMG electrode located within the socket. The EMG signal is mapped to a desired knee flexion/extension torque based on the prosthesis knee position, the residual limb position, and the interaction with the ground. As a result, the proposed EMG controller enabled an above-knee amputee to climb stairs at different speeds, while carrying additional loads, and even backwards. By enabling direct, volitional control of powered robotic knee prostheses, the proposed EMG controller has the potential to improve amputee mobility in the real world. keywords: {Torque;Sockets;Stairs;Electromyography;Trajectory;Timing;Torque measurement},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10341615&isnumber=10341342

A. Naseri, M. Liu, I. -C. Lee and H. H. Huang, "Development and Online Validation of an Intrinsic Fault Detector for a Powered Robotic Knee Prosthesis," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2158-2164, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10342433.Abstract: Robotic prosthetic legs have the potential to significantly improve the quality of life for lower limb amputees to perform locomotion in various environments and task conditions. However, these devices lack the capability to recover from internal intrinsic control faults, which can lead to harmful consequences affecting the user's gait performance and eroding trust in these robotic devices. Therefore, a reliable fault detection system is necessary to detect intrinsic faults in a timely manner and provide a compensatory response to mitigate their effects. This paper focuses on designing an active fault detector for a robotic knee prosthesis and demonstrates its effectiveness in real time. The developed system utilizes a Gaussian Process model to estimate knee angular velocity, which is sensitive to intrinsic faults and relies on the difference between estimated velocity and the actual measurement to detect internal control faults. In an offline analysis, the developed detector demonstrated a higher detection rate, lower false alarm ratio, and faster detection time compared with the two approaches reported previously. An online demonstration was also conducted with a unilateral amputee participant and showed performance similar to that of offline analysis. We expect that this detector can be integrated into a fault tolerance strategy to enhance the reliability and safety of robotic prosthetic legs, enabling users to perform their everyday tasks with greater confidence. keywords: {Legged locomotion;Knee;Performance evaluation;Fault detection;Detectors;Robot sensing systems;Safety},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10342433&isnumber=10341342

A. Spinos and M. Yim, "Collision-Free Reconfiguration Planning for Variable Topology Trusses Using a Linking Invariant," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2210-2215, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10341927.Abstract: We introduce a multi-modal reconfiguration planner for the Variable Topology Truss (VTT) modular robot system. The VTT system is a truss-architecture modular self-reconfigurable robot. When a VTT is restricted to a single topology, the collision constraints between the truss members divide the configuration space into many connected components, which makes collision-free planning difficult. This new planner leverages a mathematical invariant based on link theory to find topological reconfiguration actions that can connect these different regions and make progress towards a goal. We show that this planner is effective at finding paths between configurations with different truss topologies. keywords: {Kinematics;Topology;Planning;Labeling;Collision avoidance;Intelligent robots},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10341927&isnumber=10341342

J. Liu, X. Chen, J. Xiao, S. Lin, Z. Zheng and H. Lu, "Hybrid Map-Based Path Planning for Robot Navigation in Unstructured Environments," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2216-2223, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10341666.Abstract: Fast and accurate path planning is important for ground robots to achieve safe and efficient autonomous navigation in unstructured outdoor environments. However, most existing methods exploiting either 2D or 2.5D maps struggle to balance the efficiency and safety for ground robots navigating in such challenging scenarios. In this paper, we propose a novel hybrid map representation by fusing a 2D grid and a 2.5D digital elevation map. Based on it, a novel path planning method is proposed, which considers the robot poses during traversability estimation. By doing so, our method explicitly takes safety as a planning constraint enabling robots to navigate unstructured environments smoothly. The proposed approach has been evaluated on both simulated datasets and a real robot platform. The experimental results demonstrate the efficiency and effectiveness of the proposed method. Compared to state-of-the-art baseline methods, the proposed approach consistently generates safer and easier paths for the robot in different unstructured outdoor environments. The implementation of our method is publicly available at https://github.com/nubot-nudt/T-Hybrid-planner. keywords: {Point cloud compression;Navigation;Robot kinematics;Path planning;Hybrid power systems;Safety;Planning},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10341666&isnumber=10341342

J. Liu, M. Fu, W. Zhang, B. Chen, R. Prakapovich and U. Sychou, "CDT-Dijkstra: Fast Planning of Globally Optimal Paths for All Points in 2D Continuous Space," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2224-2231, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10341744.Abstract: The Dijkstra algorithm is a classic path planning method, which in a discrete graph space, can start from a specified source node and find the shortest path between the source node and all other nodes in the graph. However, to the best of our knowledge, there is no effective method that achieves a function similar to that of the Dijkstra's algorithm in a continuous space. In this study, an optimal path planning algorithm called convex dissection topology (CDT)-Dijkstra is developed, which can quickly compute the global optimal path from one point to all other points in a 2D continuous space. CDT-Dijkstra is mainly divided into two stages: SetInit and GetGoal. In SetInit, the algorithm can quickly obtain the optimal CDT encoding set of all the cut lines based on the initial point Xinit. In GetGoal, the algorithm can return the global optimal path of any goal point at an extremely high speed. In this study, we propose and prove the planning principle of considering only the points on the cutlines, thus reducing the state space of the distance optimal path planning task from 2D to 1D. In addition, we propose a fast method to find the optimal path in a homogeneous class and theoretically prove the correctness of the method. Finally, by testing in a series of environments, the experimental results demonstrate that CDT-Dijkstra not only plans the optimal path from all points at once, but also has a significant advantage over advanced algorithms considering certain complex tasks. keywords: {Path planning;Encoding;Planning;Topology;Task analysis;Optimization;Intelligent robots;Path Planning;Topology;Path Homotopy;Optimal Distance;Mobile Robots},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10341744&isnumber=10341342

H. Yang, P. Ge, J. Cao, Y. Yang and Y. Liu, "Large Scale Pursuit-Evasion Under Collision Avoidance Using Deep Reinforcement Learning," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2232-2239, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10341975.Abstract: This paper examines a pursuit-evasion game (PEG) involving multiple pursuers and evaders. The decentralized pursuers aim to collaborate to capture the faster evaders while avoiding collisions. The policies of all agents are learning-based and are subjected to kinematic constraints that are specific to unicycles. To address the challenge of high dimensionality encountered in large-scale scenarios, we propose a state processing method named Mix-Attention, which is based on Self-Attention. This method effectively mitigates the curse of dimensionality. The simulation results provided in this study demonstrate that the combination of Mix-Attention and Independent Proximal Policy Optimization (IPPO) surpasses alternative approaches when solving the multi-pursuer multi-evader PEG, particularly as the number of entities increases. Moreover, the trained policies showcase their ability to adapt to scenarios involving varying numbers of agents and obstacles without requiring retraining. This adaptability showcases their transferability and robustness. Finally, our proposed approach has been validated through physical experiments conducted with six robots. keywords: {Deep learning;Simulation;Kinematics;Reinforcement learning;Games;Robustness;Collision avoidance},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10341975&isnumber=10341342

J. A. Ansari, S. Tourani, G. Kumar and B. Bhowmick, "Exploring Social Motion Latent Space and Human Awareness for Effective Robot Navigation in Crowded Environments," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 1-8, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10341721.Abstract: This work proposes a novel approach to social robot navigation by learning to generate robot controls from a social motion latent space. By leveraging this social motion latent space, the proposed method achieves significant improvements in social navigation metrics such as success rate, navigation time, and trajectory length while producing smoother (less jerk and angular deviations) and more anticipatory trajectories. The superiority of the proposed method is demonstrated through comparison with baseline models in various scenarios. Additionally, the concept of humans' awareness towards the robot is introduced into the social robot navigation framework, showing that incorporating human awareness leads to shorter and smoother trajectories owing to humans' ability to positively interact with the robot. keywords: {Measurement;Navigation;Social robots;Robot control;Aerospace electronics;Trajectory;Intelligent robots},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10341721&isnumber=10341342

S. H. Arul, J. J. Park and D. Manocha, "DS-MPEPC: Safe and Deadlock-Avoiding Robot Navigation in Cluttered Dynamic Scenes," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2256-2263, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10341869.Abstract: We present an algorithm for safe robot navigation in complex dynamic environments using a variant of model predictive equilibrium point control. We use an optimization formulation to navigate robots gracefully in dynamic environments by optimizing over a trajectory cost function at each timestep. We present a novel trajectory cost formulation that significantly reduces conservative and deadlocking behaviors and generates smooth trajectories. In particular, we propose a new collision probability function that effectively captures the risk associated with a given configuration and the time to avoid collisions based on the velocity direction. Moreover, we propose a terminal state cost based on the expected time-to-goal and time-to-collision values that helps in avoiding trajectories that could result in deadlock. We evaluate our cost formulation in multiple simulated scenarios, including narrow corridors with dynamic obstacles, and observe significantly improved navigation behavior and reduced deadlocks as compared to prior methods. keywords: {Costs;Navigation;Heuristic algorithms;System recovery;Predictive models;Prediction algorithms;Cost function},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10341869&isnumber=10341342

C. Hartl-Nesic, E. Pritzi and A. Kugi, "Path-Following Control with Path and Orientation Snap-In," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2316-2323, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10341392.Abstract: Robots need to be as simple to use as tools in a workshop and allow non-experts to program, modify and execute tasks. In particular for repetitive tasks in high-mix/low-volume production, robotic support and physical human-robot interaction (pHRI) help to significantly increase productivity. In path-following control (PFC), the geometric description of the path is decoupled from the time evolution of the robot's end-effector along the path. PFC is inherently suitable for pHRI since path progress can be derived from the interaction with the human. In this work, an extension to multi-path PFC is proposed, which allows smooth transitions between the paths initiated by the human. Additionally, two pHRI modes called path snap-in and orientation snap-in are proposed, which use attractive forces to snap the robot end-effector onto a path or a predefined orientation. Moreover, the stability properties of PFC are inherited and the method is applicable to linear, nonlinear and self-intersecting paths. The proposed pHRI modes are validated on an experimental drilling task for teach-in (using orientation snap-in) and execution (using path snap-in) with the kinematically redundant collaborative robot Kuka Lbr iiwa 14 R820. keywords: {Drilling;Productivity;Damping;Robot kinematics;Human-robot interaction;Collaboration;End effectors},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10341392&isnumber=10341342

M. Al Saaideh, N. Alatawneh, K. Aljanaideh and M. Al Janaideh, "Design and Control of a Reluctance-Based Micropositioning Stage for Scanning Motion Applications," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2324-2329, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10341381.Abstract: This paper presents a design and characterization of a micropositioning stage driven by a reluctance actuator. The stage is constructed with a C-core reluctance actuator and four compression springs. The design of the stage is presented using a CAD model, followed by the fabrication process of the prototype. The mathematical model is formulated to present the interaction among the stage's electrical, magnetic, and mechanical dynamic behaviour. Next, the force-current and force-gap characteristics are obtained by measuring the force under different applied currents and air gaps. After that, the system is analyzed to determine the maximum applied voltage that stabilizes the system in an open-loop configuration, followed by the time-domain and frequency-domain response. Finally, the feedforward controller is presented to linearize the dynamic behavior of the stage over a specific range of motion. The experimental results under the feedforward controller show a linear characteristic between the desired force and the output displacement. keywords: {Actuators;Voltage measurement;Current measurement;Force;Dynamics;Random access memory;Behavioral sciences},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10341381&isnumber=10341342

F. Rocha et al., "Body Posture Controller for Actively Articulated Tracked Vehicles Moving Over Rough and Unknown Terrains," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2330-2337, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10341528.Abstract: Terrestrial mobile robots face diverse topographies while in field missions. Rough terrains cause the platform to oscillate, which is undesirable for some tasks. Robotic platforms with active tracked flippers can use such mechanisms to reach and maintain a leveled configuration while halted or moving. Thus, this work presents a posture controller that regulates the robot's orientation and contact plane clearance using flippers while the robot moves over unknown, uneven ground. The method takes as input the flippers' joint position, torque, and the robot chassis orientation, outputting as the command signal the flippers' joint velocities. Based on Stewart platforms, a differential kinematics model relates desired platform's motion to flippers' frame velocities. Later, a flippers-ground interaction model transforms their frames' computed velocities to flippers' joint speed commands. The controller is based on dual-quaternion algebra for generating the error signal. The efficacy of the proposed controller is evaluated experimentally in an industrial robotic platform moving as it moves along an open field track. The method successfully regulates the robot's posture while navigating over non-modeled rough terrain. keywords: {Torque;Three-dimensional displays;Tracking;Service robots;Navigation;Kinematics;Transforms},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10341528&isnumber=10341342

X. Lin, W. Song, X. Liu, X. He and Y. Wang, "Exploring Learning-Based Control Policy for Fish-Like Robots in Altered Background Flows," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2338-2345, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10342394.Abstract: The study of motion control for the fish-like robots in complex fluid fields is of great importance in improving the performance of underwater vehicles, due to its strong maneuverability, propulsion efficiency, and deceptive visual appearance. In this article, a novel learning-based control framework is first proposed to autonomously explore efficient control policies that are capable of performing motion control tasks in non-quiescent and unknown background flows. First, we utilize a high-fidelity simulation system, named FishGym, to generate various uniform flows. Next, a DRL-based algorithm is incorporated with the FishGym to train the fish-like robot to control its motion to optimally complete a delicately designed task (Approaching Target and Stay) in both quiescent and uniform flow. Then, the obtained control policy together with an online estimator is directly applied to a Path-Following Task. The proposed framework well balances the simulation accuracy and the computational efficiency, which is of crucial importance for effective coupling with the learning algorithm. The simulation results indicate that, via the proposed learning framework, the robot successfully acquired a swimming strategy that can be used to adapt to different background flows and tasks. Furthermore, we also observe some adaptation behavior of the robot, such as rheotaxis, that is similar to the fish in nature, which gains us more insight into the mechanism underlying the adaptation behavior of fish in a complex environment. keywords: {Visualization;Simulation;Propulsion;Fish;Behavioral sciences;Task analysis;Motion control},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10342394&isnumber=10341342

H. Klein, N. Jaquier, A. Meixner and T. Asfour, "On the Design of Region-Avoiding Metrics for Collision-Safe Motion Generation on Riemannian Manifolds," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2346-2353, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10341266.Abstract: The generation of energy-efficient and dynamic-aware robot motions that satisfy constraints such as joint limits, self-collisions, and collisions with the environment remains a challenge. In this context, Riemannian geometry offers promising solutions by identifying robot motions with geodesics on the so-called configuration space manifold. While this manifold naturally considers the intrinsic robot dynamics, constraints such as joint limits, self-collisions, and collisions with the environment remain overlooked. In this paper, we propose a modification of the Riemannian metric of the configuration space manifold allowing for the generation of robot motions as geodesics that efficiently avoid given regions. We introduce a class of Riemannian metrics based on barrier functions that guarantee strict region avoidance by systematically generating accelerations away from no-go regions in joint and task space. We evaluate the proposed Riemannian metric to generate energy-efficient, dynamic-aware, and collision-free motions of a humanoid robot as geodesics and sequences thereof. keywords: {Measurement;Manifolds;Robot motion;Geometry;Humanoid robots;Energy efficiency;Trajectory},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10341266&isnumber=10341342

M. Eckhoff, D. Knobbe, H. Zwirnmann, A. Swikir and S. Haddadin, "Towards Connecting Control to Perception: High-Performance Whole-Body Collision Avoidance Using Control-Compatible Obstacles," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2354-2361, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10342515.Abstract: One of the most important aspects of autonomous systems is safety. This includes ensuring safe human-robot and safe robot-environment interaction when autonomously performing complex tasks or in collaborative scenarios. Al-though several methods have been introduced to tackle this, most are unsuitable for real-time applications and require carefully handcrafted obstacle descriptions. In this work, we propose a method combining high-frequency and real-time self and environment collision avoidance of a robotic manipulator with low-frequency, multimodal, and high-resolution environmental perceptions accumulated in a digital twin system. Our method is based on geometric primitives, so-called primitive skeletons. These, in turn, are information-compressed and real-time compatible digital representations of the robot's body and environment, automatically generated from ultra-realistic virtual replicas of the real world provided by the digital twin. Our approach is a key enabler for closing the loop between environment perception and robot control by providing the millisecond real-time control stage with a current and accurate world description, empowering it to react to environmental changes. We evaluate our whole-body collision avoidance on a 9-DOFs robot system through five experiments, demonstrating the functionality and efficiency of our framework. keywords: {Robot control;Digital representation;Manipulators;Real-time systems;Skeleton;Digital twins;Safety},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10342515&isnumber=10341342

L. Wang et al., "Real-Time Whole-Body Collision Avoidance and Path Following of a Snake Robot Through MPC-based Optimization Strategies," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2362-2367, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10342404.Abstract: The work in this paper delves into the challenge of whole elongated body's obstacle avoidance during path following for a class of bionic snake robots. Currently, most studies focus solely on preventing the robot's head from colliding with obstacles through designed controllers. However, due to the unique elongated structure and biomimetic locomotion modes of snake robots, it is unavoidable that the rest of the robot's body could still collide with obstacles. To resolve this problem, we propose a novel real-time optimization obstacle avoidance strategy for a class of terrestrial snake robots with multi-link elongated body using model predictive control (MPC). Moreover, by leveraging the elongated body characteristics of the robot, an improved path guidance strategy is also developed. The effectiveness of the proposed strategies is verified and validated through extensive simulations and experiments on a custom-built nine-link elongated snake robot. The results demonstrate that all links of the robot can well avoid obstacles while continuing to track the given path. keywords: {Target tracking;Friction;Snake robots;Predictive models;Real-time systems;Collision avoidance;Task analysis},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10342404&isnumber=10341342

J. Kim, J. Lee and A. D. Ames, "Safety-Critical Coordination for Cooperative Legged Locomotion via Control Barrier Functions," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2368-2375, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10341987.Abstract: This paper presents a safety-critical approach to the coordinated control of cooperative robots locomoting in the presence of fixed (holonomic) constraints. To this end, we leverage control barrier functions (CBFs) to ensure the safe cooperation of the robots while maintaining a desired formation and avoiding obstacles. The top-level planner generates a set of feasible trajectories, accounting for both kinematic constraints between the robots and physical constraints of the environment. This planner leverages CBFs to ensure safety-critical coordination control, i.e., guarantee safety of the collaborative robots during locomotion. The middle-level trajectory planner incorporates interconnected single rigid body (SRB) dynamics to generate optimal ground reaction forces (GRFs) to track the safety-ensured trajectories from the top-level planner while addressing the interconnection dynamics between agents. Distributed low-level controllers generate whole-body motion to follow the prescribed optimal GRFs while ensuring the friction cone condition at each end of the stance legs. The effectiveness of the approach is demonstrated through numerical simulations and experimentally on a pair of quadrupedal robots. keywords: {Legged locomotion;Tracking;Robot kinematics;Dynamics;Kinematics;Numerical simulation;Reduced order systems},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10341987&isnumber=10341342

M. R. Turski, J. Norby and A. M. Johnson, "Staged Contact Optimization: Combining Contact-Implicit and Multi-Phase Hybrid Trajectory Optimization," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2376-2383, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10342296.Abstract: Trajectory optimization problems for legged robots are commonly formulated with fixed contact schedules. These multi-phase Hybrid Trajectory Optimization (HTO) methods result in locally optimal trajectories, but the result depends heavily upon the predefined contact mode sequence. Contact-Implicit Optimization (CIO) offers a potential solution to this issue by allowing the contact mode to be determined throughout the trajectory by the optimization solver. However, CIO suffers from long solve times and convergence issues. This work combines the benefits of these two methods into one algorithm: Staged Contact Optimization (SCO). SCO tightens constraints on contact in stages, eventually fixing them to allow robust and fast convergence to a feasible solution. Results on a planar biped and spatial quadruped demonstrate speed and optimality improvements over CIO and HTO. These properties make SCO well suited for offline trajectory generation or as an effective tool for exploring the dynamic capabilities of a robot. keywords: {Legged locomotion;Schedules;Visualization;Cost function;Finite element analysis;Behavioral sciences;Quadrupedal robots},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10342296&isnumber=10341342

J. Lee, J. Kim and A. D. Ames, "Hierarchical Relaxation of Safety-critical Controllers: Mitigating Contradictory Safety Conditions with Application to Quadruped Robots," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2384-2391, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10342094.Abstract: The safety-critical control of robotic systems often must account for multiple, potentially conflicting, safety constraints. This paper proposes novel relaxation techniques to address safety-critical control problems in the presence of conflicting safety conditions. In particular, Control Barrier Functions (CBFs) provide a means to encode safety as constraints in a Quadratic Program (QP), wherein multiple safety conditions yield multiple constraints. However, the QP problem becomes infeasible when the safety conditions cannot be simultaneously satisfied. To resolve this potential infeasibility, we introduce a hierarchy between the safety conditions and employ an additional variable to relax the less important safety conditions (Relaxed-CBF-QP). We also formulate a cascaded structure to achieve smaller violations of lower-priority safety conditions (Hierarchical-CBF-QP). The proposed approach, therefore, ensures the existence of at least one solution to the QP problem with the CBFs while dynamically balancing enforcement of additional safety constraints. Importantly, this paper evaluates the impact of different weighting factors in the Hierarchical-CBF-QP and, due to the sensitivity of these weightings in the observed behavior, proposes a method to determine the weighting factors via a sampling-based technique. The validity of the proposed approach is demonstrated through simulations and experiments on a quadrupedal robot navigating to a goal through regions with different levels of danger. keywords: {Legged locomotion;Uncertainty;Sensitivity;Navigation;Control systems;Safety;Quadrupedal robots},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10342094&isnumber=10341342

M. B. Hong, Y. Kim, G. T. Kim, M. Lee and S. Kim, "Design of Novel Knee Joint Mechanism of Lower-Limb Exoskeleton to Realize Spatial Motion of Human Knee," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2419-2425, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10342378.Abstract: The rotation axis of human knee joint varies according to knee flexion angles. That is, human knee movement is spatial with dominant flexional rotation. Knee joints of most lower-limb exoskeletons were, however, realized with a simple revolute pair for design simplicity. Wearing the knee joint with a simple revolute pair constrains inevitably natural parasitic motion of human knee joint. Rigid constraints imposed due to the simple knee joint lowers wearability and comfortability. In addition, it may act as potential risks to harm the knee joint structure of the wearer. The concept of polycentric knee is a well-known approach to mimic the variation of knee rotation center. Polycentric knees, however, realize only the planar trace of projected points of rotation axis. That is, parasitic knee rotations of varus and internal rotation occuring naturally during knee flexion cannot be realized by polycentric knees. In order to resolve this, a novel spherical knee joint of exoskeleton is introduced in this paper to realize knee spherical movements. For the design, change in instantaneous rotation axes during knee flexion is formulated to a spherical trace as a function of knee flexion angles. A spherical four-bar linkage is suggested to realize the axis trajectory, not the point trace. A method to find instantaneous rotation axis and rotation matrix of coupler link is derived, when the angle of input link is given. Using the kinematic relations, kinematic parameters of the mechanism are optimized to minimize angle difference between the instantaneous axis of coupler and the required axis of knee rotation. Finally, based on the synthesized kinematic parameters, a prototype design was introduced in this paper. keywords: {Industries;Couplings;Transmission line matrix methods;Exoskeletons;Government;Prototypes;Kinematics},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10342378&isnumber=10341342

M. Luo et al., "A Novel Coiled Cable-Conduit-Driven Hyper-Redundant Manipulator for Remote Operating in Narrow Spaces," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2426-2432, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10341359.Abstract: Operating in narrow spaces is an important challenge in the development of robots. Redundant manipulators are one way to solve this problem, but their mechanism design and control method still have much room for improvement. In this paper, we propose a coiled cable-conduit-driven hyper-redundant manipulator (C-CDHRM) with great slenderness and flexibility. In terms of mechanism design, it considers both compactness and operability. By imitating the structure and behavior of a constricting snake, it can be uncoiled sequentially from a coiled storage state, led by the head. In terms of control methods, we propose a multi-layer control system that can make remote operations more accurate and reliable. On the one hand, guiding, segmenting, and following the path overcome the planning ambiguity caused by redundancy. On the other hand, conduit transmission modeling and cable length correction overcome the nonlinear mapping of cable-driven joints and were verified in experiments. Through tests, the mobile integrated system composed of C-CDHRM has an excellent performance in operation precision and accuracy, ensuring safety and accessibility in narrow spaces. Finally, in field experiments, the inspection and cleaning of various types of electrical equipment have been successfully completed, showing excellent application prospects. keywords: {Design methodology;Redundancy;Inspection;Manipulators;Control systems;Cleaning;Safety},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10341359&isnumber=10341342

Z. Lyu and Q. Xu, "Design and Testing of a Flexure-Based XYZ Micropositioner with High Space-Utilization Efficiency," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2433-2438, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10341380.Abstract: The flexure-based XYZ micropositioner with hybrid configuration has become more prevalent due to the characteristics of less mechanism decoupling and high motion precision. However, traditional mechanism design suffers from a large plane occupation with Z stage stacking, which leads to a low space-utilization efficiency. To address this issue, a novel conceptual design is proposed in this paper by integrating a spatially structured XY stage and an embedded Z stage together. After completing the design of the mechanism, the driving stiffness of the stage in three axes is evaluated by the mechanics analysis. Then, the model is verified by performing finite element analysis simulation study and experimental test. The theoretical model, simulation results, and experimental data indicate a good agreement. Experimental results show that the proposed flexure-based XYZ micropositioner can deliver a stroke of $\boldsymbol{4.15 \text{mm} \times 4.06 \text{mm} \times 0.04}$ mm with a physical size of $\boldsymbol{116 \text{mm} \times 116 \text{mm} \times 45 \text{mm}. }$ The performance comparison reveals that it has a superior space-utilization efficiency. In consideration of the feasibility of the proposed conceptual design, it provides a reference for diversified and refined design of XYZ micropositioners. keywords: {Analytical models;Simulation;Stacking;Data models;Finite element analysis;Behavioral sciences;Intelligent robots},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10341380&isnumber=10341342

H. Xu, J. Cao, Z. Cheng, Z. Liang and J. Chen, "Design and Development of a Deformable In-Pipe Inspection Robot for Various Diameter Pipes," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2439-2446, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10341512.Abstract: Pipelines have become one of the most important infrastructures in the city. Over time, they are prone to aging, cracks, corrosion, and the demand for regular inspection is gradually increasing. Robotic solutions are effective methods for in-pipe inspection. However, existing In-pipe Inspection Robots (IPIR) require that the inner diameter of the pipe is fixed in the application scenarios, and need extra labor to control the robot and handle the cable. In this work, we design and develop a deformable robot to adapt to pipes with different inner diameters. Specifically, the passive elastic hinge is used by us to make the robot fully in contact with the pipe, generating enough friction to ensure that the robot is attached to the inner wall of the pipe. An edge device is deployed on the robot, generating velocity commands of wheels through the data from Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU), which eliminates the need for external devices. Experimental results demonstrate that the robot can move in horizontal and vertical pipelines, as well as traverse through pipe joints and scenarios where there is dirty or small obstacle. keywords: {Measurement units;Friction;Pipelines;Urban areas;Wheels;Inertial navigation;Inspection},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10341512&isnumber=10341342

H. Isakhani, S. Nefti-Meziani, S. Davis and H. Isakhani, "A Bioinspired Underactuated Dual Tendon-Based Adaptive Gripper for Space Applications," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2447-2454, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10342142.Abstract: Hands are one of the most intricate elements of a humanoid due to their role as end-effectors interacting with their non-linear surrounding environment. This paper aims to present the design of a bioinspired underactuated robotic hand with an improved dexterity that is capable of adaptive grasping and manipulation of a wide-range of objects using a dual-tendon mechanism. The proposed design is focused on the key elements of scalability, modularity, ease of fabrication and cost efficiency to meet several imperative constraints of space applications. These features are achieved by introducing a novel actuation mechanism, manufacturing methods, and component design. In particular, monolithic finger modules are fabricated by fusing and integrating both hard and soft materials analogous to bones wrapped in muscles using economical and readily-available materials and machines (intermediate 3D printer). Weight-to-power ratio, actuation optimisation, design trade-offs, and various potential applications of the proposed adaptive hand is discussed in this paper. Furthermore, the prototype is subjected to evaluation of its performance in different scenarios that ultimately confirms its improved dexterity and gripping power compared to the literature. keywords: {Fabrication;Three-dimensional displays;Scalability;Force;Grasping;Robustness;Topology},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10342142&isnumber=10341342

R. H. Jiang, N. Doshi, R. Gondhalekar and A. Rodriguez, "Parallel-Jaw Gripper and Grasp Co-Optimization for Sets of Planar Objects," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2455-2462, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10342241.Abstract: We propose a framework for optimizing a planar parallel-jaw gripper for use with multiple objects. While optimizing general-purpose grippers and contact locations for grasps are both well studied, co-optimizing grasps and the gripper geometry to execute them receives less attention. As such, our framework synthesizes grippers optimized to stably grasp sets of polygonal objects. Given a fixed number of contacts and their assignments to object faces and gripper jaws, our framework optimizes contact locations along these faces, gripper pose for each grasp, and gripper shape. Our key insights are to pose shape and contact constraints in frames fixed to the gripper jaws, and to leverage the linearity of constraints in our grasp stability and gripper shape models via an augmented Lagrangian formulation. Together, these enable a tractable nonlinear program implementation. We apply our method to several examples. The first illustrative problem shows the discovery of a geometrically simple solution where possible. In another, space is constrained, forcing multiple objects to be contacted by the same features as each other. Finally a toolset-grasping example shows that our framework applies to complex, real-world objects. We provide a physical experiment of the toolset grasps. keywords: {Measurement;Geometry;Shape;Linearity;Grasping;Stability analysis;Grippers},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10342241&isnumber=10341342

M. Nishihara and F. Asano, "Inertial Propulsion Robot Using the Shape Characteristics of a Streamlined Body Frame," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2463-2469, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10342508.Abstract: We have been investigating a crawling-like loco-motion robot to make it efficiently slide forward based on a simple system and control mechanisms on a slippery level surface, where the motion of the center of mass plays an important role. In this paper, we induce an effective motion of the center of mass considering a streamlined body shape of a locomotion robot in which a pendulum is installed. First, we derive the equation of motion and a control input to achieve a desired motion of the inner pendulum. Second, we formulate constraint conditions between the streamlined body and a slippery floor. Third, we demonstrate the numerical simulation, and the robot steadily slides forward by adopting the streamlined shape as the body frame. Fourth, we verify the numerical results through experiments, and the experimental results exhibit a similar tendency compared with the numerical results. Fifth, we find a local minimum value of locomotion efficiency based on Bayesian optimization which is a class of machine-learning-based optimization, and we achieve exceedingly efficient locomotion of the robot on the slippery floor at the local minimum in both the simulation and experiment. keywords: {Shape;Propulsion;Numerical simulation;Control systems;Mathematical models;Bayes methods;Optimization},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10342508&isnumber=10341342

Y. Shu et al., "Two-Stage Trajectory-Tracking Control of Cable-Driven Upper-Limb Exoskeleton Robots with Series Elastic Actuators: A Simple, Accurate, and Force-Sensorless Method," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2470-2476, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10342056.Abstract: The advantages of cable-driven exoskeleton robots with series elastic actuators can be summarized in twofold: 1) the inertia of the robot joint is relatively low, which is more friendly for human-robot interaction; 2) the elastic element is tolerant to impacts and hence provides structural safety. As trade-offs, the overall dynamic model of such a system is of high order and subject to both unmodelled disturbances (due to the cable-driven mechanism) and external torques (due to the human-robot interaction), opening up challenges for the controller development. This paper proposes a new trajectory-tracking control scheme for cable-driven upper-limb exoskeleton robots with series elastic actuators. The control objectives are achieved in two stages: Stage I is to approximate then compensate for unmodelled disturbances with iterative learning techniques; Stage II is to employ a suboptimal model predictive controller to drive the robot to track the desired trajectory. While controlling such a robot is not trivial, the proposed control scheme exhibits the advantages of force-sensorlessness, high accuracy, and low complexity compared with other methods in the real-world experiments. keywords: {Training;Actuators;Exoskeletons;Human-robot interaction;Drives;Trajectory;Complexity theory},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10342056&isnumber=10341342

X. Pi, I. A. Szczech and L. Cao, "A Retractable Soft Growing Robot with a Flexible Backbone," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2477-2484, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10342214.Abstract: Soft-growing robots are emerging with numerous potential applications because of their superior capability of frictionless navigation. However, their success is hindered by their tendency to buckle under the tension required to retract them via inversion. In this paper, we propose a simple and scalable tubular backbone to facilitate retracting the robot body without buckling. With this backbone, compressive forces at the robot's tip are mitigated and a limit is placed on the effective length for retraction during the application of tension. We first present the selection of the backbone and the development of such a retractable soft-growing robot. Along with the characterization of the working principles behind this buckling-free mechanism, success was observed with the use of the backbone in retraction tests. The effects of different parameters such as robot body lengths, air pressures, curvatures, and retraction modes on the performance were also investigated. This backbone approach requires no bulky or in-situ mechatronic components inside the robot body and thus may be used in medical applications which appreciate simple, compact, and in-situ electronic-free designs. keywords: {Biomedical equipment;Mechatronics;Navigation;Medical services;Robots;Intelligent robots},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10342214&isnumber=10341342

D. Feshbach et al., "CurveQuad: A Centimeter-Scale Origami Quadruped that Leverages Curved Creases to Self-Fold and Crawl with One Motor," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2485-2492, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10342339.Abstract: We present CurveQuad, a miniature curved origami quadruped that is able to self-fold and unfold, crawl, and steer, all using a single actuator. CurveQuad is designed for planar manufacturing, with parts that attach and stack sequentially on a flat body. The design uses 4 curved creases pulled by 2 pairs of tendons from opposite ends of a link on a 270°servo. It is 8 cm in the longest direction and weighs 10.9 g. Rotating the horn pulls the tendons inwards to induce folding. Continuing to rotate the horn shears the robot, enabling the robot to shuffle forward while turning in either direction. We experimentally validate the robot's ability to fold, steer, and unfold by changing the magnitude of horn rotation. We also demonstrate basic feedback control by steering towards a light source from a variety of starting positions and orientations, and swarm aggregation by having 4 robots simultaneously steer towards the light. The results demonstrate the potential of using curved crease origami in self-assembling and deployable robots with complex motions such as locomotion. keywords: {Legged locomotion;Robot sensing systems;Turning;Surface roughness;Sensor systems;Manufacturing;Quadrupedal robots},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10342339&isnumber=10341342

J. Buzhardt, P. Chivkula and P. Tallapragada, "A Pendulum-Driven Legless Rolling Jumping Robot," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2493-2498, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10342513.Abstract: In this paper, we present a novel rolling, jumping robot. The robot consists of a driven pendulum mounted to a wheel in a compact, lightweight, 3D printed design. We show that by driving the pendulum to shift the robot's weight distribution, the robot is able to obtain significant rolling speed, achieve jumps of up to 2.5 body lengths vertically, and clear horizontal distances of over 6 body lengths. The robot's dynamic model is derived and simulation results indicate that it is consistent with the rolling motion and jumping observed on the robot. The ability to both roll and jump effectively using a minimalistic design makes this robot unique and could inspire the use of similar mechanisms on robots intended for applications in which agile locomotion on unstructured terrain is necessary, such as disaster response or planetary exploration. keywords: {Solid modeling;Three-dimensional displays;Trajectory planning;Simulation;Robot vision systems;Wheels;Angular velocity},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10342513&isnumber=10341342

E. Frias-Miranda, A. Srivastava, S. Wang and L. H. Blumenschein, "Vine Robot Localization Via Collision," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2515-2521, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10342238.Abstract: Localization of robots is a complex task that is often hindered by the sensors these systems use. Due to the majority of field robots being rigid, most of these sensing modalities have the same common faults, such as performance being hindered when their camera vision is obscured. In addition, rigid systems lack flexibility when traversing multiple environments: especially when traversing uneven and unpredictable ground. Soft robots, which can adaptably interact with the environment, could serve as a solution to both problems. One specific soft robot, the Vine Robot, has exhibited excellent performance while moving through constrained, unpredictable environments. This makes the Vine Robot an ideal candidate for a novel method of sensing and localizing in environments, obstacle collision localization. We use our understanding of the nature of Vine Robot motion to be able to predict the tip position of the robot at every instant based on sensor feedback. Through the single obstacle experiments, it was found that our algorithm can provide a precise picture of the tip position of the robot in differing environments. Further, in a multi obstacle demonstration, less than 5% max error relative to the full robot length was observed on the path prediction. Our study helps lay the foundation for a new method for Vine Robot localization using contact as a new sensing modality. keywords: {Location awareness;Robot vision systems;Soft robotics;Robot sensing systems;Robot localization;Sensor systems;Sensors},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10342238&isnumber=10341342

F. Fuentes and L. H. Blumenschein, "Mapping Unknown Environments through Passive Deformation of Soft, Growing Robots," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2522-2527, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10341705.Abstract: When faced with an unstructured environment filled with an unknown number and size of obstacles on a chaotic terrain, it can be a challenge to determine the best method for navigating and mapping the space. This problem, known as Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM), has typically been approached using vision-based solutions, but these solutions require clear visual conditions in order to function optimally. A different approach to sensing environments has been explored in soft robotic systems, specifically by sensing changes in the environment through sensing changes in the robot's configuration. Building on this idea, we introduce a method of mapping based on colliding with and deforming around obstacles using a soft, growing robot. Instead of avoiding obstacles, as is typically done to protect robots, we take advantage of the soft, growing robot's compliance in order to navigate through, and collect information about, the environment. Through the construction and testing of a geometry-based simulation, we analyzed the behavior and ef-fectiveness of this approach for mapping by generating random launch positions and collecting information from contacted obstacles and traversed regions. Through a myriad of randomly generated environments, we determine that: 1) the density of obstacles in an environment has minimal impact on mapping abilities and 2) at least 70% of each environment tested can be mapped by deploying 20 or fewer soft, growing robots. keywords: {Location awareness;Visualization;Simultaneous localization and mapping;Navigation;Soft robotics;Sensors;Behavioral sciences},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10341705&isnumber=10341342

S. Even, T. Zheng, H. Lin and Y. Ozkan-Aydin, "Stable Real-Time Feedback Control of a Pneumatic Soft Robot," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2528-2533, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10342212.Abstract: Soft actuators offer compliant and safe interaction with an unstructured environment compared to their rigid counterparts. However, control of these systems is often challenging because they are inherently under-actuated, have infinite degrees of freedom (DoF), and their mechanical properties can change by unknown external loads. Existing works mainly relied on discretization and reduction, suffering from either low accuracy or high computational cost for real-time control purposes. Recently, we presented an infinite-dimensional feedback controller for soft manipulators modeled by partial differential equations (PDEs) based on the Cosserat rod theory. In this study, we examine how to implement this controller in real-time using only a limited number of actuators. To do so, we formulate a convex quadratic programming problem that tunes the feedback gains of the controller in real-time such that it becomes realizable by the actuators. We evaluated the controller's performance through experiments on a physical soft robot capable of planar motions and show that the actual controller implemented by the finite-dimensional actuators still preserves the stabilizing property of the desired infinite-dimensional controller. This research fills the gap between the infinite-dimensional control design and finite-dimensional actuation in practice and suggests a promising direction for exploring PDE-based control design for soft robots. keywords: {Pneumatic actuators;Shape control;Control design;Partial differential equations;Soft robotics;Real-time systems;Mechanical factors},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10342212&isnumber=10341342

K. Wang et al., "Real2Sim2Real Transfer for Control of Cable-Driven Robots Via a Differentiable Physics Engine," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2534-2541, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10341811.Abstract: Tensegrity robots, composed of rigid rods and flexible cables, exhibit high strength-to-weight ratios and significant deformations, which enable them to navigate unstructured terrains and survive harsh impacts. They are hard to control, however, due to high dimensionality, complex dynamics, and a coupled architecture. Physics-based simulation is a promising avenue for developing locomotion policies that can be transferred to real robots. Nevertheless, modeling tensegrity robots is a complex task due to a substantial sim2real gap. To address this issue, this paper describes a Real2Sim2Real (R2S2R) strategy for tensegrity robots. This strategy is based on a differentiable physics engine that can be trained given limited data from a real robot. These data include offline measurements of physical properties, such as mass and geometry for various robot components, and the observation of a trajectory using a random control policy. With the data from the real robot, the engine can be iteratively refined and used to discover locomotion policies that are directly transferable to the real robot. Beyond the R2S2R pipeline, key contributions of this work include computing non-zero gradients at contact points, a loss function for matching tensegrity locomotion gaits, and a trajectory segmentation technique that avoids conflicts in gradient evaluation during training. Multiple iterations of the R2S2R process are demonstrated and evaluated on a real 3-bar tensegrity robot. keywords: {Training;Pipelines;Robot sensing systems;Turning;Trajectory;Task analysis;Robots},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10341811&isnumber=10341342

A. N. Mahendran, C. Freeman, A. H. Chang, M. McDougall, P. A. Vela and V. Vikas, "Multi-Gait Locomotion Planning and Tracking for Tendon-Actuated Terrestrial Soft Robot (TerreSoRo)," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2542-2549, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10341926.Abstract: The adaptability of soft robots makes them ideal candidates to maneuver through unstructured environments. However, locomotion challenges arise due to complexities in modeling the body mechanics, actuation, and robot-environment dynamics. These factors contribute to the gap between their potential and actual autonomous field deployment. A closed-loop path planning framework for soft robot locomotion is critical to close the real-world realization gap. This paper presents a generic path planning framework applied to TerreSoRo (Tetra-Limb Terrestrial Soft Robot) with pose feedback. It employs a gait-based, lattice trajectory planner to facilitate navigation in the presence of obstacles. The locomotion gaits are synthesized using a data-driven optimization approach that allows for learning from the environment. The trajectory planner employs a greedy breadth-first search strategy to obtain a collision-free trajectory. The synthesized trajectory is a sequence of rotate-then-translate gait pairs. The control architecture integrates high-level and low-level controllers with real-time localization (using an overhead webcam). Terre-SoRo successfully navigates environments with obstacles where path re-planning is performed. To best of our knowledge, this is the first instance of real-time, closed-loop path planning of a non-pneumatic soft robot. keywords: {Location awareness;Navigation;Webcams;Lattices;Soft robotics;Search problems;Real-time systems},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10341926&isnumber=10341342

X. Liu, S. Ikemoto, Y. Yoshimitsu and H. B. Amor, "Learning Soft Robot Dynamics Using Differentiable Kalman Filters and Spatio-Temporal Embeddings," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2550-2557, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10341856.Abstract: This paper introduces a novel approach for modeling the dynamics of soft robots, utilizing a differentiable filter architecture. The proposed approach enables end-to-end training to learn system dynamics, noise characteristics, and temporal behavior of the robot. A novel spatio-temporal embedding process is discussed to handle observations with varying sensor placements and sampling frequencies. The efficacy of this approach is demonstrated on a tensegrity robot arm by learning end-effector dynamics from demonstrations with complex bending motions. The model is proven to be robust against missing modalities, diverse sensor placement, and varying sampling rates. Additionally, the proposed framework is shown to identify physical interactions with humans during motion. The utilization of a differentiable filter presents a novel solution to the difficulties of modeling soft robot dynamics. Our approach shows substantial improvement in accuracy compared to state-of-the-art filtering methods, with at least a 24% reduction in mean absolute error (MAE) observed. Furthermore, the predicted end-effector positions show an average MAE of 25.77mm from the ground truth, highlighting the advantage of our approach. The code is available at https://github.com/ir-lab/soft_robot_DEnKF. keywords: {Measurement;Sensor placement;Analytical models;Deformation;Force;Dynamics;Soft robotics},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10341856&isnumber=10341342

M. Srivastava, R. Groff and I. D. Walker, "Closed Loop Control of Tendon Driven Continuum Robots Using IMUs," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2558-2563, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10342138.Abstract: In this paper, we present a new approach to the control of continuum robot sections using IMU quaternion feedback. We use a discrete time root finding algorithm to steer a continuum section in the desired shape space direction. We found that the approach lacks end effector positioning accuracy when used by itself, however, when used in conjunction with a feedforward model it actively counters the influence of unmodeled factors. The approach is implemented on a single section of a continuum hose robot developed for 3D printing of concrete in construction applications. The results demonstrate significant improvements in positioning accuracy compared to standalone kinematics/mechanics-based position control of tendon lengths. Additionally, this approach can be implemented using low cost sensing and control hardware. keywords: {Hoses;Costs;Shape;Robot kinematics;Aerospace electronics;Robot sensing systems;Hardware;Continuum robot;IMU;tendons;control},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10342138&isnumber=10341342

A. Zhang, T. -H. Wang, R. L. Truby, L. Chin and D. Rus, "Machine Learning Best Practices for Soft Robot Proprioception," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2564-2571, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10342379.Abstract: Machine learning-based approaches for soft robot proprioception have recently gained popularity, in part due to the difficulties in modeling the relationship between sensor signals and robot shape. However, to date, there exists no systematic analysis of the required design choices to set up a machine learning pipeline for soft robot proprioception. Here, we present the first study examining how design choices on different levels of the machine learning pipeline affect the performance of a neural network for predicting the state of a soft robot. We address the most frequent questions researchers face, such as how to choose the appropriate sensor and actuator signals, process input and output data, deal with time series, and pick the best neural network architecture. By testing our hypotheses on data collected from two vastly different systems–an electrically actuated robotic platform and a pneumatically actuated soft trunk–we seek conclusions that may generalize beyond one specific type of soft robot and hope to provide insights for researchers to use machine learning for soft robot proprioception. keywords: {Actuators;Systematics;Pipelines;Neural networks;Time series analysis;Machine learning;Soft robotics},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10342379&isnumber=10341342

J. Lee et al., "Active Capsule System for Multiple Therapeutic Patch Delivery: Preclinical Evaluation," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2628-2634, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10341491.Abstract: Recently, active research has been conducted on the therapeutic functions of capsule endoscopes. Here, we propose an active capsule system that captures images of the interior of the gastrointestinal tract (GI) and actively delivers therapeutic patches. The active capsule system mainly comprises therapeutic patches, an active capsule equipped with a camera, and a robot-assisted magnetic actuator. The active capsule moves inside the GI tract via a magnetic actuator using a robot, captures pictures of the GI tract in actual time, and performs hemostatic treatment by delivering therapeutic patches to the target lesions. First, the fundamental performance of the active capsule system was verified via a hemostatic performance test of the therapeutic patch, patch contamination prevention test of the active capsule, and basic actuation test of the capsule. Second, multiple therapeutic patches were delivered to the gastric surface in an ex vivo test using an active capsule system. Finally, as a preclinical test, it was confirmed that the GI tract examination and the therapeutic patches delivery were possible using the active capsule system through an animal test using a porcine. Consequently, the proposed active capsule system represents a new paradigm for capsule endoscopy with multiple therapeutic patch delivery capabilities. keywords: {Actuators;Endoscopes;Animals;Magnetic resonance imaging;Surface contamination;Robot vision systems;Medical treatment},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10341491&isnumber=10341342

C. Gan et al., "Parallel Cell Array Patterning and Target Cell Lysis on an Optoelectronic Micro-Well Device," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2635-2640, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10341701.Abstract: This work presents a novel electrical method, implemented in the form of a microfluidic device, for cell arraying and target cell lysis. The microfluidic device contains a micro-well array on the photoconductive layer based on the optoelectronic tweezers (OET) method, where parallel cell manipulation is performed. As cell suspension flows over the micro-wells, cells can be actively captured in the micro-wells by light-induced dielectrophoresis (DEP) forces, form the designed pattern array in less than 120 s. The single-cell capture rate is over 83 % in the patterned cell array, and about 94% of micro-wells are occupied by cells. Then, the target cell in the specific micro-well is illuminated and lysed by electroporation in 5 seconds. The micro-well barriers and DEP forces block the influence of the flow, and a relatively closed space is critical to preserve the cell lysates. Through experiments, light-induced DEP force cell capture and target cell electroporation can be modulated by changing the light patterns and the applied signal. This device, based on the OET and dynamic electroporation, allows the rapidity in the cell capture and target lysis at the single-cell level and can enable single-cell-based studies, such as molecular diagnostics and disease detection. keywords: {Performance evaluation;Fluidic microsystems;Force;Dynamics;Switches;Electroporation;Genetics},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10341701&isnumber=10341342

C. Wang et al., "Microrobot Control Method Based on Movement of Field Free Point in Gradient Magnetic Field," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2641-2646, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10341642.Abstract: The untethered microrobots driven by multiple external physics fields have promising ability in minimally invasive disease treatments. One common type of the driving fields is gradient magnetic field, which can provide microrobots with adequate driving force in complicated environment. In this study, a control method of microrobot through gradient magnetic field system is presented, which is realized by moving the field free point (FFP) to produce an alterable magnetic driving force. A confirmatory experiment of the robot reciprocating motion control is undertaken in a 1D gradient magnetic robot system. The control method could be applied to further studies on in vivo applications of targeted microrobot drug delivery system. keywords: {Robot motion;In vivo;Three-dimensional displays;Minimally invasive surgery;Force;Control systems;Magnetic fields;Micro/nano robot control;Gradient magnetic field},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10341642&isnumber=10341342

L. -J. W. Ligtenberg et al., "Helical Propulsion in Low-Re Numbers with Near-Zero Angle of Attack," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2647-2652, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10341627.Abstract: One approach to the wireless actuation and gravity compensation of untethered helical magnetic devices (UHMD) is through swimming with a non-zero angle of attack (AoA). This configuration allows us to counteract gravity, so that for a given desired path, we can move the UHMD controllably without drifting downward under its own weight. This study seeks to investigate the use a reduced-order model of the complex 6-degrees-of-freedom model of UHMDs in low Reynolds-number regime. A one-dimensional model representing the relative position of the UHMD with respect to an actuator rotating permanent magnet is used to predict a gap which yields bounded behavior of the open-loop system. Using geometric representation of the reduced-order model, the local bounded behavior of the UHMD with near-zero AoA is attributed to periodic active magnetic suspension, which dominates near-zero AoA. Our numerical results are verified experimentally and bounded behavior of the UHMD demonstrates the capability to swim with near-zero AoA (6.3° ± 2.2°) without drifting downward. With this actuation strategy, it is unlikely that the orientation of the UHMD will be needed during noninvasive localization, making the control system dependent on only its position with respect to a prescribed trajectory. This strategy will also provide a computational advantage in adjusting the gap between the UHMD and a robotically controlled rotating permanent magnet actuator. keywords: {Wireless communication;Actuators;Magnetic liquids;Propulsion;Predictive models;Reduced order systems;Permanent magnets},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10341627&isnumber=10341342

V. Magdanz et al., "Influence of Nanoparticle Coating on the Differential Magnetometry and Wireless Actuation of Biohybrid Microrobots," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2653-2658, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10341258.Abstract: Magnetic nanoparticles can be electrostatically assembled around sperm cells to form biohybrid micro robots. These biohybrid microrobots possess sufficient magnetic material to potentially allow for pulse-echo localization and wireless actuation. Alternatively, magnetic excitation of these nanoparticles can be used for localization based on Faraday's law of induction using a detection coil. Here, we investigate the influence of the electrostatic attraction between positively charged nanoparticles and negatively charged sperm cells on the activation of the nanoparticles during nonlinear differential magnetometry and wireless magnetic actuation. Activation of clusters of free nanoparticles and nanoparticles bound to the body of sperm cells is achieved by a combination of a high- frequency alternating field and a pulsating static field. The nonlinear response in both cases indicates that constraining the nanoparticles is likely to yield significant decreases in the magnetometry sensitivity. While the attachment of particles to the cells enables wireless actuation (rolling locomotion), the rate of change of the magnetization of the nanoparticles decreases one order of magnitude compared to free nanoparticles. keywords: {Nanoparticles;Wireless communication;Wireless sensor networks;Magnetic field measurement;Voltage measurement;Magnetometers;Magnetostatics},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10341258&isnumber=10341342

Y. M. Al-Rawashdeh, M. A. Saaideh and M. A. Janaideh, "Using Piezoceramic-Actuated Stages in Precision Long-Stroke Motion Systems: A Design Procedure," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2659-2664, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10342314.Abstract: Mainly, the integration of fine positioning piezo-actuated stages in precision motion systems is considered, which results in multi-stage configurations. Mostly, in such configurations, the fine stages are attached to the coarse positioning stages- that do not meet required precision- by mechanical means. Once the motion is synchronized, the fine stages enhance the overall precision of the multi-stage system. Undesirably, mechanical, and electromagnetic interference between the in-volved stages take place, which may limit the possible attainable precision. To control the fine stages, we propose the use of feedforward control based on the Prandtl-Ishlinskii model inverse in an attempt to accommodate related piezoceramics dynamic behavior and hysteresis. Targeting the semiconductor manufacturing, the needed multi-stage design steps according to the herein proposed approach are outlined. Also, the performance of a representative precision motion system comprising a planner coarse stage, and a uni-axial fine stage under step-and-scan trajectories is assessed. The results show that the proposed piezo-actuated fine stage improves the scanning accuracy of the overall motion system. keywords: {Semiconductor device modeling;Nanopositioning;Piezoelectric materials;Dynamics;Semiconductor device manufacture;Behavioral sciences;Trajectory},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10342314&isnumber=10341342

M. Yim, W. Gosrich and M. Miskin, "Buoyancy Enabled Non-Inertial Dynamic Walking," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2665-2672, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10341582.Abstract: We propose a mechanism for low Reynolds num-ber walking (e.g., legged microscale robots). Whereas locomotion for legged robots has traditionally been classified as dynamic (where inertia plays a role) or static (where the system is always statically stable), we introduce a new locomotion modality we call buoyancy enabled non-inertial dynamic walking in which inertia plays no role, yet the robot is not statically stable. Instead, falling and viscous drag play critical roles. This model assumes squeeze flow forces from fluid interactions combined with a well timed gait as the mechanism by which forward motion can be achieved from a reciprocating legged robot. Using two physical demonstrations of robots with Reynold's number ranging from 0.0001 to 0.02 (a microscale robot in water and a centimeter scale robot in glycerol) we find the model qualitatively describes the motion. This model can help understand microscale locomotion and design new microscale walking robots including controlling forward and backwards motion and potentially steering these robots. keywords: {Legged locomotion;Micrometers;Actuators;Fluids;Dynamics;Buoyancy;Distance measurement},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10341582&isnumber=10341342

Q. Lu, C. Zhong, Q. Liu, T. Li, H. Su and S. Liu, "Ultrafast Acoustic Holography with Physics-Reinforced Self-Supervised Learning for Precise Robotic Manipulation," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2673-2678, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10341483.Abstract: Ultrafast acoustic holography (AH) enabling dynamic contactless micro-nano robotic manipulation has recently attracted wide attention. As an advanced technique, AH encodes specific three-dimensional (3D) acoustic field on a two-dimensional (2D) hologram whereby realizing holographic reconstruction with high fidelity. However, current approaches face the limitation of encoding time, accuracy and flexibility, thus, leading to inapplicability for dynamic and precise robotic manipulation. Here, we develop an approach to overcome these issues. Its basic idea is to use a convolutional neural network trained in a self-supervised manner with iterative interaction with virtual physical environment. Energy conservation is incorporated to access the physical constrain during wave propagation. The experimental results demonstrate that the proposed method circumvents laborious annotated dataset preparation and boosts the reinforcement from physics model. By the validation and comparison on distinct acoustic fields with various patterns, the accuracy and real-time performance of the proposed method are confirmed supporting dynamic and precise robotic manipulation. keywords: {Three-dimensional displays;Propagation;Two dimensional displays;Self-supervised learning;Holography;Real-time systems;Acoustic field},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10341483&isnumber=10341342

L. W. Rogowski, J. Wood, T. Cooke, G. Kararsiz and M. J. Kim, "Surface Navigation of Alginate Artificial Cells in Mucus Solutions," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2679-2686, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10342232.Abstract: Alginate hydrogels are widely researched in phar-maceutical applications for their abilities to encapsulate and dis-perse therapeutics in response to stimuli. While effective, their utility can be greatly improved once converted into artificial cell soft-microrobots, allowing them to actively navigate through complex in vivo environments and facilitate targeted drug deliv-ery. In this study, artificial cells were fabricated by crosslinking alginate with magnetic nanoparticles and then deployed within mucus solutions to characterize their propulsion capabilities. The goal of this study was to understand how variations in simplified gastrointestinal fluid, artificial cell properties, and magnetic field characteristics could affect surface locomotion. A comparison between automatic feedback control and manual “open-loop” operation was also quantitatively explored. Under feedback control, individual artificial cells were navigated with automatically generated waypoints and a PID controller. Simu-lations were used to verify controller performance and accuracy. User operation was carried out using an Xbox controller, where the joystick could directly change navigation direction. We conclude in this study that the surface navigation of artificial cells is highly predictable within mucus concentrations and that both feedback and open-loop control are equally successful in navigation. keywords: {Drugs;In vivo;Fluids;Navigation;Hydrogels;Propulsion;Feedback control;microrobotics;hydrogels;feedback control;drug delivery;biofluids},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10342232&isnumber=10341342

A. C. Davis and D. J. Cappelleri, "Design and Control of Microscale Dual Locomotion Mode Multi-Functional Robots (μDMMFs)," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2687-2692, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10341659.Abstract: This paper presents the design and control of a novel microrobot that utilizes two distinct magnetic locomotion methods, a combination of rotating and gradient field control, for precise micro-object manipulation using multiple end-effectors. Rotating magnetic fields induce a tumbling locomotion mode to increase the movement speed and decrease issues associated with stiction and locomotion over rough surfaces. The gradient field control allows for precise manipulation using the end-effectors, which include a pointed tip for splitting groups of objects and a blunt end for pushing or capturing objects. The microrobot is fabricated using a two-photon polymerization 3D printer, allowing for the precise reproduction of complex geometries and designs. The potential applications of this technology in the medical field are discussed, highlighting the potential for in vitro cellular manipulation. keywords: {Fabrication;Force measurement;Three-dimensional displays;Shape;Force;Transportation;End effectors},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10341659&isnumber=10341342

C. K. Trygstad, X. -T. Nguyen and N. O. Pérez-Arancibia, "A New 1-mg Fast Unimorph SMA-Based Actuator for Microrobotics," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2693-2700, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10342518.Abstract: We present a new unimorph actuator for micro-robotics, which is driven by thin shape-memory alloy (SMA) wires. Using a passive-capillary-alignment technique and existing SMA-microsystem fabrication methods, we developed an actuator that is 7 mm long, has a volume of 0.45 mm3, weighs 0.96 mg, and can achieve operation frequencies of up to 40 Hz as well as lift 155 times its own weight. To demonstrate the capabilities of the proposed actuator, we created an 8-mg crawler, the MiniBug, and a bioinspired 56-mg controllable water-surface-tension crawler, the WaterStrider. The MiniBug is 8.5 mm long, can locomote at speeds as high as 0.76 BL/s (body-lengths per second), and is the lightest fully-functional crawling microrobot of its type ever created. The WaterStrider is 22 mm long, and can locomote at speeds of up to 0.28 BL/s as well as execute turning maneuvers at angular rates on the order of 0.144 rad/s. The WaterStrider is the lightest controllable SMA-driven water-surface-tension crawler developed to date. keywords: {Actuators;Time-frequency analysis;Crawlers;Wires;Microfabrication;Dynamics;Metals},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10342518&isnumber=10341342

K. Johnson, V. Arroyos, R. Villanueva, A. Schulz, S. Fuller and V. Iyer, "Toward Sub-Gram Helicopters: Designing a Miniaturized Flybar for Passive Stability," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2701-2708, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10342256.Abstract: Sub-gram flying robots have transformative potential in applications from search and rescue to precision agriculture to environmental monitoring. However, a key gap in achieving autonomous flight for these applications is the low lift to weight ratio of flapping wing and quadrotor designs around 1 g or less. To close this gap, we propose a helictoper-style design that minimizes size and weight by leveraging the high lift, reliability, and low-voltage of sub-gram motors. We take an important step to enable this goal by designing a light-weight, micfrofabricated flybar mechanism to passively stabilize such a robot. Our 48 mg flybar is folded from a flat carbon fiber laminate into a 3D mechanism that couples tilting of the flybar to a change in the angle of attack of the rotors. Our design uses flexure joints instead of ball-in-socket joints common in larger flybars. To expedite the design exploration and optimization of a microfabricated flat-folded flybar, we develop a novel user-in-the-loop bi-level optimization workflow that combines Bayesian optimization design tools and expert feedback. We develop four template designs and use this method to achieve a peak damping ratio of 0.528, an 18.9x improvement from our initial design. Compared to a flybar-less rotor with a near 0 damping ratio, our flybar-rotor mechanism maintains a stable roll and pitch with relative deviations < 1°. Our results show that, if combined with a counter-torque mechanism such as a tail rotor, our miniaturized flybar could mechanically provide attitude stability for a sub-gram helicopter. keywords: {Damping;Low voltage;Three-dimensional displays;Rotors;Tail;Reliability engineering;Laminates},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10342256&isnumber=10341342

N. Carlisle, M. A. K. Williams, C. P. Whitby, V. Nock, J. L. Y. Chen and E. Avci, "Manipulation of Optical Force-Induced Micro-Assemblies at the Air-Liquid Interface," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2709-2714, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10341939.Abstract: Colloidal particles trapped by a focused laser at the air-liquid interface provide an interesting assembly dynamic. In this study, we demonstrated manipulating optical force-induced swarms via dynamic locomotion of assemblies built with holographic optical tweezers. This manipulation approach builds the foundation for autonomous control of building assemblies at the air-liquid interface, which is the first time optical micro-robots have performed this feat. Our proposed semi-autonomous control allows users to produce small dynamic secondary assemblies at the interface, which are transported to and merged with a main static assembly. This static-dynamic approach grows assemblies up to ~2.1 times larger than conventional methods. Manipulation and control of large-scale optical force-induced assemblies in real-time to create re-configurable swarms has the potential to lead the development of new technology and approaches for complex tasks, such as the development of new material, transportation of biological matter, studying biofilm formation created by bacteria colonies at the air-liquid interface, and more. keywords: {Biomedical optical imaging;Dynamics;Buildings;Transportation;Holography;Holographic optical components;Optical materials},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10341939&isnumber=10341342

X. Huang et al., "Creating a Dynamic Quadrupedal Robotic Goalkeeper with Reinforcement Learning," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2715-2722, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10341936.Abstract: We present a reinforcement learning (RL) framework that enables quadrupedal robots to perform soccer goalkeeping tasks in the real world. Soccer goalkeeping with quadrupeds is a challenging problem, that combines highly dynamic locomotion with precise and fast non-prehensile object (ball) manipulation. The robot needs to react to and intercept a potentially flying ball using dynamic locomotion maneuvers in a very short amount of time, usually less than one second. In this paper, we propose to address this problem using a hierarchical model-free RL framework. The first component of the framework contains multiple control policies for distinct locomotion skills, which can be used to cover different regions of the goal. Each control policy enables the robot to track random parametric end-effector trajectories while performing one specific locomotion skill, such as jump, dive, and sidestep. These skills are then utilized by the second part of the framework which is a high-level planner to determine a desired skill and end-effector trajectory in order to intercept a ball flying to different regions of the goal. We deploy the proposed framework on a Mini Cheetah quadrupedal robot and demonstrate the effectiveness of our framework for various agile interceptions of a fast-moving ball in the real world. keywords: {Reinforcement learning;End effectors;Trajectory;Quadrupedal robots;Task analysis;Manipulator dynamics;Intelligent robots},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10341936&isnumber=10341342

Q. Liao, Z. Li, A. Thirugnanam, J. Zeng and K. Sreenath, "Walking in Narrow Spaces: Safety-Critical Locomotion Control for Quadrupedal Robots with Duality-Based Optimization," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2723-2730, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10341896.Abstract: This paper presents a safety-critical locomotion control framework for quadrupedal robots. Our goal is to enable quadrupedal robots to safely navigate in cluttered environments. To tackle this, we introduce exponential Discrete Control Barrier Functions (exponential DCBFs) with duality-based obstacle avoidance constraints into a Non-linear Model Predictive Control (NMPC) with Whole-Body Control (WBC) framework for quadrupedal locomotion control. This enables us to use polytopes to describe the shapes of the robot and obstacles for collision avoidance while doing locomotion control of quadrupedal robots. Compared to most prior work, especially using CBFs, that utilize spherical and conservative approximation for obstacle avoidance, this work demonstrates a quadrupedal robot autonomously and safely navigating through very tight spaces in the real world. (Our open-source code is available at https://github.com/HybridRobotics/quadruped_nmpc_dcbf_duality, and the video is available at https://youtu.be/plgSQjwXm1Q.) keywords: {Legged locomotion;Codes;Navigation;Shape;Aerospace electronics;Quadrupedal robots;Collision avoidance},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10341896&isnumber=10341342

J. Kim, T. Li and S. Ha, "ARMP: Autoregressive Motion Planning for Quadruped Locomotion and Navigation in Complex Indoor Environments," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2731-2737, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10341389.Abstract: Generating natural and physically feasible motions for legged robots has been a challenging problem due to its complex dynamics. In this work, we introduce a novel learning-based framework of autoregressive motion planner (ARMP) for quadruped locomotion and navigation. Our method can generate motion plans with an arbitrary length in an autore-gressive fashion, unlike most offline trajectory optimization algorithms for a fixed trajectory length. To this end, we first construct the motion library by solving a dense set of trajectory optimization problems for diverse scenarios and parameter settings. Then we learn the motion manifold from the dataset in a supervised learning fashion. We show that the proposed ARMP can generate physically plausible motions for various tasks and situations. We also showcase that our method can be successfully integrated with the recent robot navigation frameworks as a low-level controller and unleash the full capability of legged robots for complex indoor navigation. keywords: {Legged locomotion;Manifolds;Indoor navigation;Supervised learning;Libraries;Planning;Quadrupedal robots},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10341389&isnumber=10341342

Z. Zang, M. Kawawa-Beaudan, W. Yu, T. Zhang and A. Zakhor, "Perceptive Hexapod Legged Locomotion for Climbing Joist Environments," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2738-2745, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10341957.Abstract: Attics are one of the largest sources of energy loss in residential homes, but they are uncomfortable and dangerous for human workers to conduct air sealing and insulation. Hexapod robots are potentially suitable for carrying out those tasks in tight attic spaces since they are stable, compact, and lightweight. For hexapods to succeed in these tasks, they must be able to navigate inside tight attic spaces of single-family residential homes in the U.S., which typically contain rows of approximately 6 or 8-inch tall joists placed 16 inches apart from each other. Climbing over such obstacles is challenging for autonomous robotics systems. In this work, we develop a perceptive walking model for legged hexapods that can traverse over terrain with random joist structures using egocentric vision. Our method can be used on low-cost hardware not requiring real-time joint state feedback. We train our model in a teacher-student fashion with 2 phases: In phase 1, we use reinforcement learning with access to privileged information such as local elevation maps and joint feedback. In phase 2, we use supervised learning to distill the model into one with access to only onboard observations, consisting of egocentric depth images and robot orientation captured by a tracking camera. We demonstrate zero-shot sim-to-real transfer on a Hiwonder[1] SpiderPi robot, equipped with a depth camera onboard, climbing over joist courses we construct to simulate the environment in the field. Our proposed method achieves nearly 100% success rate climbing over the test courses, significantly outperforming the model without perception and the controller provided by the manufacturer. keywords: {Legged locomotion;State feedback;Navigation;Robot vision systems;Supervised learning;Reinforcement learning;Cameras},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10341957&isnumber=10341342

D. A. Vasquez, D. Jay, M. Dina, M. Austin, S. McConomy and J. E. Clark, "Design of STARQ: A Multimodal Quadrupedal Robot for Running, Climbing, and Swimming," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2746-2751, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10342423.Abstract: Legged animals have developed a variety of modes of locomotion to adapt to the diverse and unknown terrain challenges posed in the natural world. Legged robots, however, have been largely limited to specializing in one domain, with few that have endeavored to bridge the gap between two. In this work we present the Scansorial, Terrestrial, and Aquatic Robot Quadruped (STARQ), a novel legged robot capable of bridging three different domains with three modes of locomotion: walking, climbing, and swimming. In this study we describe model-based design techniques as well as design innovations that have made multimodal locomotion possible including waterproof hips for 2-DOF high torque legs, legs capable of effective power transmission in three modes, and bi-directionally compliant feet for walking and attaching to vertical surfaces. To demonstrate the robot's capabilities we present locomotion test data including speed and cost of transport in each of these domains. We also demonstrate the capability to transition from walking to swimming in a natural environment. keywords: {Legged locomotion;Technological innovation;Torque;Costs;Power transmission;Quadrupedal robots;Intelligent robots},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10342423&isnumber=10341342

M. Sombolestan and Q. Nguyen, "Hierarchical Adaptive Control for Collaborative Manipulation of a Rigid Object by Quadrupedal Robots," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2752-2759, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10341700.Abstract: Despite the potential benefits of collaborative robots, effective manipulation tasks with quadruped robots remain difficult to realize. In this paper, we propose a hierarchical control system that can handle real-world collaborative manipulation tasks, including uncertainties arising from object properties, shape, and terrain. Our approach consists of three levels of controllers. Firstly, an adaptive controller computes the required force and moment for object manipulation without prior knowledge of the object's properties and terrain. The computed force and moment are then optimally distributed between the team of quadruped robots using a Quadratic Programming (QP)-based controller. This QP-based controller optimizes each robot's contact point location with the object while satisfying constraints associated with robot-object contact. Finally, a decentralized loco-manipulation controller is designed for each robot to apply manipulation force while maintaining the robot's stability. We successfully validated our approach in a high-fidelity simulation environment where a team of quadruped robots manipulated an unknown object weighing up to 18 kg on different terrains while following the desired trajectory. keywords: {Uncertainty;Force;Collaboration;Stability analysis;Trajectory;Quadrupedal robots;Task analysis},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10341700&isnumber=10341342

J. K. Yim, J. Ren, D. Ologan, S. G. Gonzalez and A. M. Johnson, "Proprioception and Reaction for Walking Among Entanglements," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2760-2767, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10341986.Abstract: Entanglements like vines and branches in natural settings or cords and pipes in human spaces prevent mobile robots from accessing many environments. Legged robots should be effective in these settings, and more so than wheeled or tracked platforms, but naive controllers quickly become entangled and stuck. In this paper we present a method for proprioception aimed specifically at the task of sensing entanglements of a robot's legs as well as a reaction strategy to disentangle legs during their swing phase as they advance to their next foothold. We demonstrate our proprioception and reaction strategy enables traversal of entanglements of many stiffnesses and geometries succeeding in 14 out of 16 trials in laboratory tests, as well as a natural outdoor environment. keywords: {Legged locomotion;Torque;Estimation;Observers;Robot sensing systems;Hardware;Sensors},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10341986&isnumber=10341342

A. Klipfel, N. Sontakke, R. Liu and S. Ha, "Learning a Single Policy for Diverse Behaviors on a Quadrupedal Robot Using Scalable Motion Imitation," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2768-2775, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10341709.Abstract: Learning various motor skills for quadrupedal robots is a challenging problem that requires careful design of task-specific mathematical models or reward descriptions. In this work, we propose to learn a single capable policy using deep reinforcement learning by imitating a large number of reference motions, including walking, turning, pacing, jumping, sitting, and lying. On top of the existing motion imitation framework, we first carefully design the observation space, the action space, and the reward function to improve the scalability of the learning as well as the robustness of the final policy. In addition, we adopt a novel adaptive motion sampling (AMS) method, which maintains a balance between successful and unsuccessful behaviors. This technique allows the learning algorithm to focus on challenging motor skills and avoid catastrophic forgetting. We demonstrate that the learned policy can exhibit diverse behaviors in simulation by successfully tracking both the training dataset and out-of-distribution trajectories. We also validate the importance of the proposed learning formulation and the adaptive motion sampling scheme by conducting experiments. keywords: {Legged locomotion;Tracking;Databases;Scalability;Reinforcement learning;Turning;Robustness},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10341709&isnumber=10341342

K. Ye, K. Chung and K. Karydis, "A Novel Lockable Spring-Loaded Prismatic Spine to Support Agile Quadrupedal Locomotion," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2776-2783, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10341427.Abstract: This paper introduces a way to systematically investigate the effect of compliant prismatic spines in quadrupedal robot locomotion. We develop a novel spring-loaded lockable spine module, together with a new Spinal Compliance-Integrated Quadruped (SCIQ) platform for both empirical and numerical research. Individual spine tests reveal beneficial spinal characteristics like a degressive spring, and validate the efficacy of a proposed compact locking/unlocking mechanism for the spine. Benchmark vertical jumping and landing tests with our robot show comparable jumping performance between the rigid and compliant spines. An observed advantage of the compliant spine module is that it can alleviate more challenging landing conditions by absorbing impact energy and dissipating the remainder via feet slipping through much in cat-like stretching fashion. keywords: {Legged locomotion;Spine;Benchmark testing;Quadrupedal robots;Springs;Intelligent robots;Foot},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10341427&isnumber=10341342

V. N. Hartmann, J. Ortiz-Haro and M. Toussaint, "Efficient Path Planning In Manipulation Planning Problems by Actively Reusing Validation Effort," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2822-2829, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10341264.Abstract: The path planning problems arising in manipulation planning and in task and motion planning settings are typically repetitive: the same manipulator moves in a space that only changes slightly. Despite this potential for reuse of information, few planners fully exploit the available information. To better enable this reuse, we decompose the collision checking into reusable, and non-reusable parts. We then treat the sequences of path planning problems in manipulation planning as a multiquery path planning problem. This allows the usage of planners that actively minimize planning effort over multiple queries, and by doing so, actively reuse previous knowledge. We implement this approach in EIRM* and effort ordered LazyPRM*, and benchmark it on multiple simulated robotic examples. Further, we show that the approach of decomposing collision checks additionally enables the reuse of the gained knowledge over multiple different instances of the same problem, i.e., in a multiquery manipulation planning scenario. The planners using the decomposed collision checking out-perform the other planners in initial solution time by up to a factor of two while providing a similar solution quality. keywords: {Torque;Force;Benchmark testing;Manipulators;Path planning;Planning;Task analysis},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10341264&isnumber=10341342

R. I. Arnob and G. J. Stein, "Improving Reliable Navigation Under Uncertainty via Predictions Informed by Non-Local Information," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2830-2837, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10342276.Abstract: We improve reliable, long-horizon, goal-directed navigation in partially-mapped environments by using nonlocally available information to predict the goodness of temporally-extended actions that enter unseen space. Making predictions about where to navigate in general requires nonlocal information: any observations the robot has seen so far may provide information about the goodness of a particular direction of travel. Building on recent work in learning-augmented model-based planning under uncertainty, we present an approach that can both rely on nonlocal information to make predictions (via a graph neural network) and is reliable by design: it will always reach its goal, even when learning does not provide accurate predictions. We conduct experiments in three simulated environments in which nonlocal information is needed to perform well. In our large scale university building environment, generated from real-world floorplans to the scale, we demonstrate a 9.3% reduction in cost-to-go compared to a non-learned baseline and a 14.9% reduction compared to a learning-informed planner that can only use local information to inform its predictions. keywords: {Uncertainty;Navigation;Buildings;Predictive models;Reliability engineering;Graph neural networks;Space exploration},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10342276&isnumber=10341342

F. Meyer, K. Glock and D. Sayah, "TOP-UAV: Open-Source Time-Optimal Trajectory Planner for Point-Masses Under Acceleration and Velocity Constraints," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2838-2845, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10342270.Abstract: In the latest research for unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), time-optimal trajectory planning of a point-mass with acceleration as control input and constrained maximum velocity (TOT-PMAV) has proved to be very promising for UAV behavior planning. They can be calculated within microseconds and tracked with high precision by modern trajectory tracking controllers like model predictive control (MPC). However, recent research shows that the state-of-the-art (SOTA) approach to generate these time-optimal trajectories is based on an invalid method to synchronize the coordinate axes which sometimes yields trajectories that miss the desired final state by far. Hence, an alternative approach was proposed that claims to resolve this issue. However, it still needs mathematical proof of its correctness. In this work, we provide the missing proof and mathematically demonstrate the problems arising from the SOTA approach. Further, since neither the SOTA nor the alternative solution approach utilizes the full kinematic capacity of a UAV, we propose an improved solution approach to the TOT-PMAV that better exploits kinematic properties and yields, on average, up to 14% faster trajectories. We substantiate our findings with an extensive computational study, show in which situations the SOTA is likely to fail and provide metrics to measure the consequence during failure. To enable reproducibility, our code is open-source. keywords: {Trajectory tracking;Trajectory planning;Kinematics;Autonomous aerial vehicles;Reproducibility of results;Trajectory;Planning},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10342270&isnumber=10341342

L. Huang and X. Jing, "Fast Asymptotically Optimal Path Planning in Dynamic, Uncertain Environments," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2846-2852, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10341928.Abstract: This paper presents Fast Adaptive Tree (FAT), an asymptotically-optimal sampling-based path planner for dynamic and uncertain scenarios. Namely, the solution extracted converges to the optimal solution given the sensor information as the number of samples approaches infinity. The planner maintains an underlying graph, which increasingly approximates the search domain, and a dynamic spanning tree of the graph, which contains the shortest path from the start to the goal state. The planner quickly responds to the availability of new information about the environments or the robot movements by minimally repairing the spanning tree over the navigation. The simulation results show that the proposed path planner achieves higher efficiency of replanning than several state-of-the-art path planners without sacrificing solution quality. keywords: {Navigation;Simulation;Heuristic algorithms;Robot sensing systems;Path planning;Fats;Data mining;Path planning;Aymptotically-optimal;Dynamic environment;Sampling-based},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10341928&isnumber=10341342

L. Xu et al., "An Efficient Trajectory Planner for Car-Like Robots on Uneven Terrain," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2853-2860, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10341558.Abstract: Autonomous navigation of ground robots on uneven terrain is being considered in more and more tasks. However, uneven terrain will bring two problems to motion planning: how to assess the traversability of the terrain and how to cope with the dynamics model of the robot associated with the terrain. The trajectories generated by existing methods are often too conservative or cannot be tracked well by the controller since the second problem is not well solved. In this paper, we propose terrain pose mapping to describe the impact of terrain on the robot. With this mapping, we can obtain the SE(3) state of the robot on uneven terrain for a given state in SE(2). Then, based on it, we present a trajectory optimization framework for car-like robots on uneven terrain that can consider both of the above problems. The trajectories generated by our method conform to the dynamics model of the system without being overly conservative and yet able to be tracked well by the controller. We perform simulations and real-world experiments to validate the efficiency and trajectory quality of our algorithm. keywords: {Tracking;Heuristic algorithms;Dynamics;Stochastic processes;Approximation algorithms;Tires;Planning},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10341558&isnumber=10341342

R. Shome, Z. Kingston and L. E. Kavraki, "Robots as AI Double Agents: Privacy in Motion Planning," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2861-2868, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10341460.Abstract: Robotics and automation are poised to change the landscape of home and work in the near future. Robots are adept at deliberately moving, sensing, and interacting with their environments. The pervasive use of robotics promises societal and economic payoffs due to its capabilities—conversely, the capabilities of robots to move within and sense the world around them is susceptible to abuse. Robots, unlike typical sensors, are inherently autonomous, active, and deliberate. Such automated agents can become AI double agents liable to violate the privacy of coworkers, privileged spaces, and other stakeholders. In this work we highlight the understudied and inevitable threats to privacy that can be posed by the autonomous, deliberate motions and sensing of robots. We frame the problem within broader sociotechnological questions alongside a comprehensive review. The privacy-aware motion planning problem is formulated in terms of cost functions that can be modified to induce privacy-aware behavior: preserving, agnostic, or violating. Simulated case studies in manipulation and navigation, with altered cost functions, are used to demonstrate how privacy-violating threats can be easily injected, sometimes with only small changes in performance (solution path lengths). Such functionality is already widely available. This preliminary work is meant to lay the foundations for near-future, holistic, interdisciplinary investigations that can address questions surrounding privacy in intelligent robotic behaviors determined by planning algorithms. keywords: {Privacy;Navigation;Robot sensing systems;Cost function;Sensors;Planning;Behavioral sciences},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10341460&isnumber=10341342

A. J. La Valle, B. Sakcak and S. M. LaValle, "Bang-Bang Boosting of RRTs," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2869-2876, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10341760.Abstract: This paper presents methods for dramatically improving the performance of sampling-based kinodynamic planners. The key component is a complete, exact steering method that produces a time-optimal trajectory between any states for a vector of synchronized double integrators. This method is applied in three ways: 1) to generate RRT edges that quickly solve the two-point boundary-value problems, 2) to produce a (quasi)metric for more accurate Voronoi bias in RRTs, and 3) to iteratively time-optimize a given collision-free trajectory. Experiments are performed for state spaces with up to 2000 dimensions, resulting in improved computed trajectories and orders of magnitude computation time improvements over using ordinary metrics and constant controls. keywords: {Aerospace electronics;Extraterrestrial measurements;Boosting;Trajectory;Synchronization;Intelligent robots},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10341760&isnumber=10341342

Y. Yang and R. L. Hatton, "Geometric Gait Optimization for Inertia-Dominated Systems with Nonzero Net Momentum," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2877-2884, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10342211.Abstract: Inertia-dominated mechanical systems can achieve net displacement by 1) periodically changing their shape (known as kinematic gait) and 2) adjusting their inertia distribution to utilize the existing nonzero net momentum (known as momentum gait). Therefore, finding the gait that most effectively utilizes the two types of locomotion in terms of the magnitude of the net momentum is a significant topic in the study of locomotion. For kinematic locomotion with zero net momentum, the geometry of optimal gaits is expressed as the equilibria of system constraint curvature flux through the surface bounded by the gait, and the cost associated with executing the gait in the metric space. In this paper, we identify the geometry of optimal gaits with nonzero net momentum effects by lifting the gait description to a time-parameterized curve in shape-time space. We also propose the variational gait optimization algorithm corresponding to the lifted geometric structure, and identify two distinct patterns in the optimal motion, determined by whether or not the kinematic and momentum gaits are concentric. The examples of systems with and without fluid-added mass demonstrate that the proposed algorithm can efficiently solve forward and turning locomotion gaits in the presence of nonzero net momentum. At any given momentum and effort limit, the proposed optimal gait that takes into account both momentum and kinematic effects outperforms the reference gaits that each only considers one of these effects. keywords: {Geometry;Measurement;Costs;Shape;Kinematics;Turning;Mechanical systems},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10342211&isnumber=10341342

W. Han, A. Jasour and B. Williams, "Real-Time Tube-Based Non-Gaussian Risk Bounded Motion Planning for Stochastic Nonlinear Systems in Uncertain Environments via Motion Primitives," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2885-2892, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10342429.Abstract: We consider the motion planning problem for stochastic nonlinear systems in uncertain environments. More precisely, in this problem the robot has stochastic nonlinear dynamics and uncertain initial locations, and the environment contains multiple dynamic uncertain obstacles. Obstacles can be of arbitrary shape, can deform, and can move. All uncertainties do not necessarily have Gaussian distribution. This general setting has been considered and solved in [1]. In addition to the assumptions above, in this paper, we consider long-term tasks, where the planning method in [1] would fail, as the uncertainty of the system states grows too large over a long time horizon. Unlike [1], we present a real-time online motion planning algorithm. We build discrete-time motion primitives and their corresponding continuous-time tubes offline, so that almost all system states of each motion primitive are guaranteed to stay inside the corresponding tube. We convert probabilistic safety constraints into a set of deterministic constraints called risk contours. During online execution, we verify the safety of the tubes against deterministic risk contours using sum-of-squares (SOS) programming. The provided SOS-based method verifies the safety of the tube in the presence of uncertain obstacles without the need for uncertainty samples and time discretization in real-time. By bounding the probability the system states staying inside the tube and bounding the probability of the tube colliding with obstacles, our approach guarantees bounded probability of system states colliding with obstacles. We demonstrate our approach on several long-term robotics tasks. keywords: {Uncertainty;Shape;Programming;Probabilistic logic;Real-time systems;Electron tubes;Planning},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10342429&isnumber=10341342

D. Ren, S. Wu, X. Wang, Y. Peng and X. Ren, "Learning Bifunctional Push-Grasping Synergistic Strategy for Goal-Agnostic and Goal-Oriented Tasks," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2909-2916, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10342533.Abstract: Both goal-agnostic and goal-oriented tasks have practical value for robotic grasping: goal-agnostic tasks target all objects in the workspace, while goal-oriented tasks aim at grasping pre-assigned goal objects. However, most current grasping methods are only better at coping with one task. In this work, we propose a bifunctional push-grasping synergistic strategy for goal-agnostic and goal-oriented grasping tasks. Our method integrates pushing along with grasping to pick up all objects or pre-assigned goal objects with high action efficiency depending on the task requirement. We introduce a bifunctional network, which takes in visual observations and outputs dense pixel-wise maps of $Q$ values for pushing and grasping primitive actions, to increase the available samples in the action space. Then we propose a hierarchical reinforcement learning framework to coordinate the two tasks by considering the goal-agnostic task as a combination of multiple goal-oriented tasks. To reduce the training difficulty of the hierarchical framework, we design a two-stage training method to train the two types of tasks separately. We perform pre-training of the model in simulation, and then transfer the learned model to the real world without any additional real-world fine-tuning. Experimental results show that the proposed approach outperforms existing methods in task completion rate and grasp success rate with less motion number. Supplementary material is available at https://github.com/DafaRen/Learning_Bifunctional_Push-grasping_Synergistic_Strategy_for_Goal-agnostic_and_Goal-oriented_Tasks. keywords: {Training;Visualization;Robot kinematics;Grasping;Reinforcement learning;Task analysis;Clutter},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10342533&isnumber=10341342

L. Zhao, M. Sun, W. J. Lv, X. Y. Zhang and L. Zeng, "Domain Adaptation on Point Clouds for 6D Pose Estimation in Bin-Picking Scenarios," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2925-2931, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10341920.Abstract: Training with simulated data is a common approach in pose estimation research. However, a sim-to-real gap between clean simulated data and noisy real data will seriously weaken the generalization ability of the algorithm, especially for point clouds. To address this problem, this paper proposes a domain adaptive pose estimation network (DAPE-Net). For the feature extracted from the backbone, the network will conduct the real and simulation discrimination based on a feature discriminator, and complete the pose estimation by adversarial training. This makes the network pay more attention to the domain invariant features of simulation and real point clouds to complete domain adaptation. In our experiment, DAPE-Net improved the performance of pose estimation by 10%. To solve the problem that domain adaptation requires a small amount of real data, we propose a scheme that can semi-automatically collect real data in bin-picking scenarios for 6D pose estimation. keywords: {Point cloud compression;Training;Adaptation models;Adaptive systems;Pose estimation;Prototypes;Feature extraction},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10341920&isnumber=10341342

Y. Kadokawa, M. Hamaya and K. Tanaka, "Learning Robotic Powder Weighing from Simulation for Laboratory Automation," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2932-2939, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10342463.Abstract: This study focuses on a robotic powder weighing task used in laboratory automation. In this task, a robot weighs a certain amount of powder with a milligram-level target mass using a dispensing spoon. The complex dynamics of the powder, the variations in the materials being weighed, and the need to balance conservative and aggressive actions are significant challenges in the robotics field. Therefore, learning approaches are critical for this task. However, many learning interactions in real-world environments require substantial efforts to clean the spread powder. To overcome this issue, this study employs a sim-to-real transfer learning approach using a domain randomization (DR) technique. This enables the robot to weigh various powders with a small target mass and alleviates the burden of collecting data in a real-world environment. Herein, we formulated weighing manipulation as a reinforcement learning problem. Besides, we developed a powder weighing simulator and carefully selected the dynamics parameters used for DR to adapt to unseen environments. A recurrent neural network-based policy was adopted considering the balance of conservative and aggressive actions. The sim-to-real zero-shot transfer experiments demonstrated that the robot completed the weighing tasks with an average weighing error of 0.1 - 0.2 mg for different powder materials and target masses (5 - 15 mg). Overall, this approach shows promising results and can be useful for automating laboratory tasks that involve weighing powders. keywords: {Powders;Automation;Recurrent neural networks;Transfer learning;Reinforcement learning;Maintenance engineering;Task analysis},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10342463&isnumber=10341342

J. Lundell, F. Verdoja, T. N. Le, A. Mousavian, D. Fox and V. Kyrki, "Constrained Generative Sampling of 6-DoF Grasps," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2940-2946, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10341344.Abstract: Most state-of-the-art data-driven grasp sampling methods propose stable and collision-free grasps uniformly on the target object. For bin-picking, executing any of those reachable grasps is sufficient. However, for completing specific tasks, such as squeezing out liquid from a bottle, we want the grasp to be on a specific part of the object's body while avoiding other locations, such as the cap. This work presents a generative grasp sampling network, VCGS, capable of constrained 6-Degrees of Freedom (DoF) grasp sampling. In addition, we also curate a new dataset designed to train and evaluate methods for constrained grasping. The new dataset, called CONG, consists of over 14 million training samples of synthetically rendered point clouds and grasps at random target areas on 2889 objects. VCGS is benchmarked against GraspNet, a state-of-the-art unconstrained grasp sampler, in simulation and on a real robot. The results demonstrate that VCGS achieves a 10-15% higher grasp success rate than the baseline while being 2–3 times as sample efficient. Supplementary material is available on our project website. keywords: {Training;Point cloud compression;Constraint handling;Liquids;Semantics;Grasping;Sampling methods},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10341344&isnumber=10341342

J. Yoon et al., "RGBD Fusion Grasp Network with Large-Scale Tableware Grasp Dataset," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2947-2954, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10341357.Abstract: This paper proposes a novel approach to address the technical challenges of stable object grasping, particularly in the context of handling tableware in a home environment. Handling tableware is particularly important, yet challenging, due to the flat nature of most tableware objects and the need to maintain a stable posture to prevent spills. To address these challenges, we present three key contributions: 1) a large-scale tableware dataset, not commonly found in the previous datasets; 2) a novel sampling method for stable grasp pose generation; and 3) a multi-modal fusion grasp network that effectively learns 6- DoF grasp pose, including flat objects. Our dataset contains over 45 million grasp poses and 1 million RGBD images captured in 800 scenes, which include randomly selected 10–18 tableware objects under 4 different lighting conditions. The grasp poses in the dataset are generated using a novel sampling method that incorporates geometric analysis to ensure stable grasping with minimal object movement. Furthermore, we design an RGBD fusion grasp network (RGBD-FGN) that can combine information from RGB and depth images considering each characteristic. Our experimental results demonstrate the superior performance of our approach over existing techniques, which is a significant contribution towards developing a multitasking home robot. Our dataset and source code can be accessed at https://github.com/SamsungLabs/RGBD-FGN. keywords: {Fuses;Source coding;Lighting;Grasping;Benchmark testing;Sampling methods;Multitasking},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10341357&isnumber=10341342

R. Fan, T. Wang, M. Hirano and Y. Yamakawa, "One-Shot Affordance Learning (OSAL): Learning to Manipulate Articulated Objects by Observing Once," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2955-2962, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10341421.Abstract: We present One-Shot Affordance Learning (OSAL): a unified pipeline that learns manipulation for articulated objects by observing human demonstration only once. The key idea of our method is to embody affordance of articulated objects with an open-loop trajectory conditioned on a certain area of the object's surface. It serves as a simplified object-centric manipulation representation, which can be easily transferred into robot motion, while traditional methods fail to deal with the configuration difference between human hands and robot end effectors. Our system extracts the embodied affordance by focusing on hand action's effect on the object, and further grounds such affordance into object visual features through self-supervised learning for novel object configurations. We evaluated our method on a collection of real-life objects and furniture and demonstrated high success rates. With our system, humans only need to manipulate a novel object once with any gesture to transfer that manipulation skill to the robot, which we believe to be a highly efficient and user-friendly paradigm oriented for future real-life robots. keywords: {Robot motion;Visualization;Service robots;Affordances;Friction;Pipelines;Self-supervised learning},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10341421&isnumber=10341342

B. Huang, J. Yu and S. Jain, "EARL: Eye-on-Hand Reinforcement Learner for Dynamic Grasping with Active Pose Estimation," 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 2023, pp. 2963-2970, doi: 10.1109/IROS55552.2023.10341988.Abstract: In this paper, we explore the dynamic grasping of moving objects through active pose tracking and reinforcement learning for hand-eye coordination systems. Most existing vision-based robotic grasping methods implicitly assume target objects are stationary or moving predictably. Performing grasping of unpredictably moving objects presents a unique set of challenges. For example, a pre-computed robust grasp can become unreachable or unstable as the target object moves, and motion planning must also be adaptive. In this work, we present a new approach, Eye-on-hAnd Reinforcement Learner (EARL), for enabling coupled Eye-on-Hand (EoH) robotic manipulation systems to perform real-time active pose tracking and dynamic grasping of novel objects without explicit motion prediction. EARL readily addresses many thorny issues in automated hand-eye coordination, including fast-tracking of 6D object pose from vision, learning control policy for a robotic arm to track a moving object while keeping the object in the camera's field of view, and performing dynamic grasping. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach in extensive experiments validated on multiple commercial robotic arms in both simulations and complex real-world tasks. keywords: {Visualization;Target tracking;Robot kinematics;Pose estimation;Dynamics;Grasping;Robot sensing systems},URL: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=10341988&isnumber=10341342

